This bull market has been battle-tested.
>> have still remained very healthy.
>> Wall Street's figured it out. It's a
buying opportunity. The market is highly
skeptical that the ceasefire is real.
>> It feels like we're on the same kind of
off-ramp here. That's pretty good for
the market.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Anne Marie Hoardern.
Good morning and welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance. I'm Anne Marie Hoardern.
Markets are waiting for Islamabad as
delegations from Iran and the United
States prepare for talks in Pakistan.
The ceasefire remains fragile, but the
president is frustrated by the lack of
traffic in the Strait of Hormuz. On
Truth Social, Trump said Iran is doing a
very poor job. This is not the agreement
we have, and it comes as a key license
from the Treasury Department allowing
the purchase of Russian oil set to
expire this evening at midnight. And
we'll see the war's impact on inflation
data later this morning. Danny Burger,
thank you for joining me. John and Lisa
are off. So, really, this is going to be
the first check when it comes to data
about how the war has impacted the
economy.
>> It's true, and maybe that finally wakes
the market up. Maybe it won't. Stocks
are less than 1% away from where we
started this whole conflict, but it is
It is the first big piece of data that
will capture the the the energy price
ramping through March. Expectations,
Anne Marie, 0.9%. That would be the
highest print since 2022. How much of
that is reflected in corporate earnings
look looking forward? of that is
reflected in markets? For now, it is at
least an equity market that has decided
that the off-ramp to peace, that that's
the important thing, not achieving peace
itself. But at the moment, the rhetoric
does not match the facts on the ground.
Ships are not going through the Strait
of Hormuz like normal, and clearly the
president is frustrated with that. There
are going to be these negotiations, but
you have to ask, what is going to be
success for either side?
>> It seems like mixed messaging from this
president. On the one hand, he says that
negotiations are going well, and what
the Iranians say behind closed doors is
different than what they say to the
public. But then you get what you
pointed to, the president expressing his
frustration on Truth Social and taking
issue with this idea of a toll. I wonder
where that leaves us through the Strait
of Hormuz cuz many people have pointed
to the toll as being the obvious
solution to this, that maybe the United
States participates in it. If the
president's not okay with that, what
does it look like to reopen the strait?
>> Yeah, and I actually asked him about
this a few weeks ago, and he said,
"Yeah, you know, they're doing it a
little bit." This is what Khamenei said
yesterday in a statement. "We'll
definitely bring the management of the
Strait of Hormuz to a new stage." It's
the same regime, different management,
and for Iran right now, that is their
only piece of leverage in these
negotiations.
>> Right, why would you let that go? And
again, it gets me back to the market
pricing. Even if you do have some
tankers going through the Strait of
Hormuz, you're going to get a toll
charged. It seems like the only way to
get through is to have bilateral
negotiations with the Iranians. That
still seems like it leaves us in the
higher place for oil. Maybe not 100,
maybe 80, but that still makes a
difference for this market.
>> some point will the futures market catch
up to where actually the physical market
is trading. This morning, we do have
equity markets and futures relatively
flat. This comes after, as Danny said,
markets for the past 7 days have been on
a tear, uh going higher. Euro dollar
this morning, 1.17. 10-year yield, 4.30,
trading within range. And of course,
we're all going to be focused on crude
oil as we head into these very
high-stakes talks tomorrow. Impact of
the sand, New York crude WTI right now,
98.71.
Coming up on the program, Michael Pervin
of Tallbacken Capital Advisors with
stocks on a 7-day winning streak. Maha
Yahya of the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace as President Trump
demands the reopening of the Strait of
Hormuz. And Krishna Guha of Evercore ISI
on what today's inflation print means
for the Federal Reserve. We begin this
hour with our top story. President Trump
demanding Iran reopen the Strait of
Hormuz ahead of the peace talks this
weekend. Bloomberg's Jamana Berseji
joins us now from Dubai. Jamana, busy
weekend for you ahead. Set the table for
us for these talks in Islamabad.
Yeah, well, you know, President Trump is
saying that he's confident that it will
that these talks actually will be
successful. He also said in an interview
with NBC that they tend to be the
Iranians tend to be more reasonable when
they're not in the public domain. So,
and let's see whether this actually
translates. And the big challenge here
is turning what has been actually an
ongoing ceasefire the last couple of
days. Very little activity reported
overnight. So, the ceasefire is still in
place into a more permanent cessation of
hostilities. And whether the two sides
can actually bridge a lot of the
daylight that still exists between their
relative positions. Now, what I will say
is it's the early afternoon over here in
the region and there's still no
confirmation yet that the Iranian
delegation has landed in Islamabad. So,
we still don't know if they're actually
there. This may change in the course of
the next few hours, but it's an
important of course, not only because
they need to be represented, but in the
case that the whole talks and all of
these efforts get torpedoed by the
events in Lebanon. And this has been
extremely noteworthy over the last 24
hours or so because the Iranian sides
are saying that there is a possibility
they don't end up participating in the
talks unless a ceasefire is established
in Lebanon. And this comes after a day
of very heavy bombardment Wednesday.
Israel's heaviest day of air strikes
in Beirut and other parts of Lebanon as
well. The death toll was very high and
on the back of that you did see a lot of
international community backlash.
As a consequence of that, it seems as
though the White House did put pressure
on the Israeli Prime Minister. And so,
by the end of the day, the Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu did say that
they were going to start directly
directly negotiating with the the
government. Not with Hezbollah, but with
the Lebanese government. So, you could
say that there are two tracks opening up
here, but so long as Iran wants to bring
the Lebanon portfolio into the brig
bigger portfolio, I think it's going to
really overhang the the potential
outcome of negotiations that we get this
weekend. In addition to, of course, the
new issue that you and Danny were just
talking about, which is Iran wanting to
maintain sovereignty still over the
Strait of Hormuz.
Uh if you look at how many vessels have
passed through since the ceasefire, it's
minimal. Uh probably 10 in total since
Tuesday. Uh effectively, they're still
uh monitoring who and what vessels can
get through this waterway. An outcome
that is not acceptable for President
Trump, as he suggested on his Truth
Social post yesterday, and clearly not
acceptable for Gulf states as well. So,
uh you know, expectations are low, but
at least there is some optimism uh about
where we could get to, and that the work
very worst-case scenario of an even more
destructive military escalation in the
region has been avoided. Jumana, thank
you so much. I look forward to your
reporting this weekend. Of course,
Bloomberg's Jumana Bersechi leading our
coverage out of the Middle East. Here's
the view on Wall Street this morning.
Michael Purves of Tallbacken writing,
"The real thing hovering over the market
is that we will still don't know the
return on investment from the massive AI
spend from the big tech companies. This
is a bigger issue than the Iran war."
Michael joins us now. Michael, why is
that a bigger issue than what is
happening right now in terms of a pretty
massive conflict that is whipsawing
markets every single day in the Middle
East?
Well, let's step back for a second and
just think about what's happened with
the S&P 500
uh over the last 3 months. Year-to-date,
as you were just pointing out, you know,
the market's basically flat. You look at
that 8% you know, basically earnings
forward earnings are up 8% and PEs are
down 8%. That's a very healthy uh sort
of backdrop to consider the market
there. Um and what's I think what's been
happening with Iran and oil prices,
um, and I'm not dismissing it. I think
it creates all sorts of lingering issues
for
the economy and, um, for various parts
of the of the markets, but I think it's
really going to be it's almost in in
some ways more of a problem for the bond
market than it is for the equity market.
If earnings are able to
continue to grow at the index level, of
course, every you know, sectors are
different and single stocks are of
course are different. That's that is,
um,
you know, sort of overarching.
I
I think getting back to your question
about the AI, I mean, look, you know, if
you look at, uh, price earnings
multiples relative to their growth for
the big, you know, the mag six or or the
big tech sector,
um, those have been really compressed.
But the problem is is that the, you
know, effectively the PEs that these
stocks are going to be are have been
rated on are going to be in a, I think,
lower range until this massive cap ex
spend, which is just simply historic,
um, is is is able to demonstrate what
the actual returns on that spending are.
And I don't think we're going to get
answers to that anytime soon. So, I but
my setup right now is that is that we
have a problem with the big tech spend
demonstrating sustainable high margin
economics on the one hand and, uh, but
the overall economy and the overall
earnings profile for the broader index
should be okay here coming through this.
>> Michael, I I do just wonder though if we
have a premium of of something around
$30 priced into oil, to what extent is
that currently reflected in earnings
expectations? Cuz that's at the end of
the day a tax on every transportation,
packaging, retail, consumer-oriented
company. If we're paying 22 times
forward earnings, is that an honest
mark?
Uh, well, I think it's a little bit more
like 20 times right now. We do have a
little bit of a discount by the
standards of the last couple of years.
The uh, again, I'm just looking at
Bloomberg consensus estimates not not my
own
there. But yeah, look I I think the the
question about higher oil prices being a
tax on the consumer is is a very real
one.
And I don't want to take too much
comfort in the fact that a year ago we
had this incremental tax through tariffs
and yet companies and many parts of the
consumer were able to grind through that
you know, just fine. I think that's a
it's it's helpful to look at that but
it's it's also you don't want to be
complacent and just saying oh
there are you know, that this is just
going to be a replay and everything's
going to be fine in Q2 and Q3 and Q4. I
do think that there's going to be a
you know, certain parts of the economy
that are going to be hurt by this and
there's going to be certain parts of the
economy, you know, the energy sector for
example that will have a
you know, have at least a near-term
benefit from from these higher oil
prices there.
I I think this story really one one sort
of cross asset consideration here is
that if you look at what happened to
implied correlations across stocks in
the S&P 500 through this move, they
really did not surge. They surged a lot
higher during other other sort of
volatility events there. And that to me
is a bit of a tell that this is this
story is really going to play out in a
very sort of nuanced and diffuse way as
opposed to sort of oh earnings are are
categorically bad and equities are going
to be dangerous so we have to exit the
equity asset class. The VIX really has
not surged and it has not surged because
these correlations have the across stock
correlations have been so low. I should
correct myself. The Bloomberg forward PE
ratio is 21 so we fall somewhere in the
middle between you and I Michael. So so
if that's overall cross asset picture
you started out by saying this is a
bigger problem for bonds than it is for
equities. And we have heard calls Pimco
and the like saying maybe we should be
buying bonds at this point because the
ultimate impact will be weakening growth
and a Fed that cuts, therefore bonds are
attractive. Why do you think that this
Treasury market is more challenged than
that?
Well, it's it's it's it's it in in
theory, the PIMCO argument I think is is
absolutely right. Like we should be
buying bonds at these elevated yields.
There at if anything the growth picture
is negative and the oil shock is
transitory and a supply shock there. But
I think the broader picture here has
been
one and this is I think sort of nuance
but very important is that the move
higher in yields since February has all
been on the really been driven by a a
repricing of Fed policy here. And so
what that
you know, to me I think you need to see
to get the you know, the back end yields
back down to where they were
five weeks ago. I think you really need
to see that Fed policy pivot back to
where it was in February.
You know, longer term break even
inflation rates have not really moved up
in any significant way. It's really
about the Fed policy. So how do we get
Fed Fed to pivot back to where it was in
February? You either need some really
bad economic data over the next couple
of months. Um and or you know, with a
with a presumed new chairman coming in,
you need him if he presuming Warsh wants
a lot of cuts as soon as possible,
you're going to need him to convince his
colleagues at the Fed
to do that. And I think that's going to
be sort of a tall last to expect that in
in the near future. It's gotten much
harder especially as oil prices are
higher amidst this war. Michael, thank
you so much for joining us this morning.
Michael Purves of Tallbackin Capital
Advisors. We want to get you an update
now on stories elsewhere this morning.
We're watching. Here's your Bloomberg
Brief. US and Iran heading into
high-level peace talks in Pakistan
tomorrow. Ahead of the talks, President
Trump warning Iran against charging fees
on tankers going through the Strait of
Hormuz. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu agrees to have direct
negotiations with Lebanon. Netanyahu
says there's currently no ceasefire
between the two nations and vowed to
keep attacking the Iranian-backed
Hezbollah. The Wall Street Journal
reporting the talks will be preparatory
at the ambassador level. And the Senate
Banking Committee is no longer planning
to hold a confirmation hearing for Kevin
Warsh next week. The hearing to confirm
Warsh as Federal Reserve chair was
scheduled for Thursday. Punchbowl
reporting Warsh has not submitted all of
the necessary paperwork just yet. That's
your Bloomberg Brief. Coming up on the
program, all eyes on the Strait of
Hormuz.
Should Iran be able to charge a toll for
the Strait of Hormuz?
They're charging some vessels to go
through.
>> Oh, yeah. Uh
well, should they be able to?
I mean, they shouldn't be able to,
but they're doing it a little bit. Maha
Yahya of the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace is coming up next.
You're watching Bloomberg Surveillance.
Good morning.
Good morning. Welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance. Markets this morning
relatively flat. Of course, the markets
are a little bit angsty on this Friday.
The day The week doesn't end today. Of
course, there's going to be these
incredibly high-stakes
uh discussions in Islamabad over the
weekend led by Vice President J.D. Vance
with the Iranians. And clearly it comes
at a time when they're holding on to
this fragile truce, but we do not see
the uptick from ships moving in and out
of the Strait of Hormuz, which is why
oil is going to be in focus. NYMEX crude
right there, you see it $98.89
up 1% after a volatile week with oil
moving all around when it comes to the
headlines coming out of the White House.
Under surveillance this morning, all
eyes on the Strait of Hormuz.
Should Iran be able to charge a toll for
the Strait of Hormuz?
They're charging some vessels to go
through.
>> Oh, yeah. Uh
well, should they be able to? You know,
I mean, they shouldn't be able to.
But they're doing it a little bit. I
don't know. Look, look, their capability
is a lot less than it was 2 weeks ago.
Uh and with every week and every day,
frankly, it gets less and less. All I
can tell you is they're begging to make
a deal. So, let's see what happens.
Here's the latest. President Trump
demanding Iran reopen the Strait of
Hormuz, warning Tehran against charging
fees for passage. Bloomberg's Tyler
Kendall joins us now from Washington.
Tyler, very good morning to you. So,
what does success look like for the US
this weekend?
Yeah, hey Amara, good morning. Well, at
this point, we know that the Strait of
Hormuz and reopening it is going to be
the main point of success as President
Trump ramps up these threats just 1 day
away from these direct talks. The White
House though maintains that the
diplomatic efforts though are on track,
but at least publicly, both sides appear
very far apart when it comes to some of
these key tenets, not just of the
ceasefire, but of what could be in a
longer-term agreement. Now, in these
pair of posts, President Trump last
night saying that Iran is doing a quote
very poor job at reopening the Strait
because as you've mentioned, at this
point, we've seen very few ships
ultimately transit through. Now,
President Trump has previously floated
this idea that both the US and Iran
could charge tolls when it comes to the
Strait, though the White House press
secretary Caroline Levitt did say
earlier this week that that's not a
definitively accepted policy position by
the US. And in part, that's because
tolls in the Strait are actually raising
legal questions under international law.
As Bloomberg News has previously
reported that the starting price by Iran
appears to be $1 per barrel, likely paid
in digital currencies by these ships
that are transiting through. And I'll
point you to a new analysis released by
the Wall Street Journal earlier today
that finds that it's going to be Gulf
states in particular who are paying the
brunt of these tolls if they stay in
place. But whether they stay in place or
not, Annmarie, this is just underscoring
how a longer-term deal could really be
tenuous considering Iran. We know one of
their top demands is that they want
sovereignty over the waterway. Annmarie,
at this point that is a non-starter for
the US. As you well know, there appears
to be these big differences including
what the future of Iran's nuclear
capabilities are going to look like. But
again, officials say it's all going to
come down to this weekend setting the
tone for the two weeks ahead. Tyler,
thank you so much. Bloomberg's Tyler
Kendall in Washington. Joining us now is
Maha Yahya, a director of the Middle
East Center at the Carnegie Endowment
for International Peace. Maha, the fact
that they're meeting, is that basically
the success of this weekend?
Um in short, yes.
Uh the fact that they're meeting. But I
don't think any of us are holding our
breath, so to speak. It's very clear
that the maximum Iran is willing to
offer does not meet the minimum of what
uh President Trump is requiring. They're
speaking at each other, not with each
other.
Uh and a lot of the news that has come
out over the last few days just points
to that between President Trump saying
he threw the 10-point plan in the
garbage. Uh
the Iranians saying the ceasefire
includes Lebanon, then you know, and
we've seen a lot of confusion,
uh strategic confusion I would say. So,
um
we'll wait and see what happens, but I I
just I don't see these talks at least
leading somewhere. It's positive. It
gives everyone a breather for now.
Um
we have to wait and see where this goes.
>> Do you think it's a breather to more
escalation?
It could be. It could be. I mean, it's
very clear that um
uh the you know, the the IRGC their
demands of the Iranian regime uh control
over the Strait of Hormuz as your
reporter said, their nuclear capacity,
negotiating over their partners and
proxies across the region. I mean, these
are non-starters for the United States,
let alone Israel, which is a major
player in this in this uh in the deal
may be between the US and uh and Iran.
Uh that's where that these are the two
negotiating parties uh at least up
front. But the real partner in this is
Israel.
Um and already we've seen rumbles of
discontent uh because from what we
understand uh
President Trump announced the ceasefire
without real consultation with his
partner
uh Benjamin Netanyahu.
So,
it is a breather. We may see escalation
again, but it is a breather for now. And
and just just on that note, Maha, one
one of the big areas, if not the biggest
area of concern with this ceasefire on
the side of the Iranians was Israel
continuing to attack Lebanon. We learned
yesterday that they're going to be
holding direct talks. Wall Street
Journal reporting this morning that
they're preparatory talks. It's
happening at the ambassador level. How
how big of a factor is this going to be
heading into the weekend as a separate
thing that could derail any hopes of a
ceasefire?
Look, the talks themselves, I think, are
important in the sense they really break
a decades-old taboo. Um the In the past,
when Israel and Lebanon have negotiated,
they've always negotiated via third
parties, never face-to-face. So, this is
the first time that you have direct
talks between a Lebanese representative
and an Israeli representative. Will
these lead anywhere? Not at the moment,
no. It's A, it's very difficult to
negotiate with someone that's bombing
you. Uh on the on one hand, the Lebanese
government itself is trapped between the
rock and a hard place because the
decision to
stop any kind of military activity rests
elsewhere and not with the government.
Um you have to bring Iran into the game.
Uh and frankly, for Benjamin Netanyahu,
he has no interest in stopping the
conflict in Lebanon. Um it's it's a war
that is popular with his own base
uh and with the broader I mean,
according to the polls we're seeing, uh
the war is quite popular. Uh
politically, he
promised the residents of the north that
he is not it's not about stopping the
attacks. He wants to completely destroy
and dismantle Hezbollah, something he
promised in Gaza and hasn't been able to
do with Hamas. So, it's very difficult
to see how they're going to again
uh they will not go for a ceasefire. And
Hezbollah is saying, "We will not uh you
know, we want a complete ceasefire."
Iran is saying the same thing. So, it
puts everybody in a very murky
situation. What we might see is again
another breather in the sense that the
the conflict is ongoing in the south.
Uh the bombings has not has not has not
stopped in the south at all. But uh we
may see Lebanon spared another uh black
Wednesday, what we saw 2 days ago of an
entire complete blitz, 100 air strikes
in the space of 10 minutes. It was
absolutely terrifying. To this moment,
you know, it's it's more than 300 people
killed, thousands injured, and to this
moment, it just doesn't make any rhyme
or reason or reason beyond terrorizing
the country. Maha, thank you so much for
your time this morning and some of your
insights from the region. Maha Yahya of
the Carnegie Endowment for International
Peace. That last point, the fact that
the Iranians are making Lebanon and
Hezbollah a part of this says to me one,
Iran is going to continue backing their
proxies in the region, but also this is
why it's so hard for the White House.
This isn't like liberation day where
Donald Trump holds all the cards. It's
not even just say that the United States
and Iran. It's United States, Iran,
Israel, Gulf partners, what's going on
in Lebanon. Very challenging.
>> It's what makes an off-ramp really
difficult. And again, it's a market that
maybe is overlooking that or is just
focusing on the positivity. I saw this
one fact from Marco Papic
of BCA Research saying that the US is
only responsible for about 20% of daily
strikes on Iran. The rest are Israel.
Israel is a huge player in this.
>> Yeah, and that's why the president had
to call him. If he wanted this
ceasefire, he had to call Bibi
Netanyahu. Coming up in the program,
more on this conversation. Ellen Ellen
Wald of the Atlantic Council with crude,
diesel, and gasoline prices on the rise
ahead of key driving season in the
United States. Plus Kristina Quiñones
will join us with your morning movers.
Rising AI demand fueling an optics
rally. You're watching Bloomberg
Surveillance.
Very good morning to you. Welcome to
Bloomberg Surveillance. I'm Annmarie
Hordern. Lisa and John are off today and
I'm joined by Danny Burger this Friday
morning with equity futures doing
relatively nothing, but of course we
need to remember we have had seven days
of gains. One of the biggest weekly
gains for the S&P 500 we have had in
over a year. When it comes to what else
traders are looking at this morning, of
course we are counting down to the all
important CPI data at 8:30 Eastern. You
do have 10-year Treasury yields up about
a basis point, 4.30 on the 10-year.
There's your board for 2, 10s, and 30s.
And all eyes today, and this week, going
to the weekend, is going to of course be
on oil. We have high-level talks
happening in Pakistan. You have Brent
crude at $96.45,
NYMEX at $98.59.
They are two different contracts. We
should note that when you look at that
when you look at that spread. WTI is on
the May contract. Brent is on the June
contract. The point of the matter is
though, is that oil is sticking ticking
higher because the facts on the ground
have not changed. Essentially, the
Strait of Hormuz is still closed. And
this is going to be a key negotiating
leverage the Iranians will use at the
table. But of course, the United States,
especially off the president's truth
social post yesterday, they definitely
want to see the movement of vessels. So,
we're 3 hours away from the cash open.
Let's get some morning movers with
Christine Aquino. Hey, Christine. Hey,
Anne Marie. All right, let's let's take
a look at optics this morning. Those
shares are hot Lumentum up in
pre-market, dragging its peers Applied
Optoelectronics and Coherent along with
it. That is because of comments from
Lumentum saying that demand from biggest
US companies for its products is
actually accelerating. The company said
that it is booked solid. It is on track
to fulfill its order books through 2028.
And CEO Michael Hurlston said that CapEx
for the biggest hyperscalers in the US
doesn't seem to have any end in sight.
And it is in fact falling further and
further behind in terms of being able to
meet that demand. Not exactly a bad
problem to have. Let's also take a look
at shares of Taiwan Semiconductor, TSMC.
That company reported a 35%
increase in quarterly revenue, the
equivalent of $35 billion. That is of
course beating projections. Analysts see
this as a sign that Middle East tensions
hasn't necessarily curbed demand for
chips here. TSMC, of course, reporting
its full results on April 16th. Its
shares are up more than 30% this year,
actually beating some of its biggest
customers, including Nvidia and Apple.
And of course, taking a look at Shake
Shack as well of this morning. Those
shares are higher in the pre-market, as
well. It received an upgrade from Mizuho
to outperform from neutral and a price
target of $120.
Reminder that earlier this month, the
company did affirm its guidance for
first quarter and a full year revenue.
And Bloomberg Intelligence saying that
its increased ad spending, as well as
improved execution, will help it beat in
the first half. Those results are due
early in May. Emery and Danny. Thanks so
much, Christina. I actually love Shake
Shack cuz they have a gluten-free bun.
Are they the only ones? I feel like that
has to be rare to have a gluten-free Um
them and Chick-fil-A, but the Shake
Shack one's very good. So, if I if I
treat myself, it's usually Do you
remember the Beyond Meat guy, though,
who was saying that Mahajan ruined all
of this? He basically said our earnings
are bad because people don't want
meat-free items. They don't want
gluten-free buns. They all just want
like red meat because that's what this
government is is projecting out there.
>> Right. For some. Yeah. For some. All
right. On our radar this morning, the US
and Iran ceasefire appears to be holding
ahead of tomorrow's peace talks in
Islamabad. Meanwhile, Israel vowing to
continue strikes on Lebanon uh given
what's going on with Hezbollah.
Ceasefire negotiations between the two
countries set for next week. And
President Trump demanding Iran open the
Strait of Hormuz, calling the country's
effective closure of the waterway
dishonorable. In a separate post, the
president pressured Tehran to stop
charging tolls for tankers to cross the
strait. And the White House is warning
employees against insider trading. An
internal staff-wide email was sent
following a series of well-timed and
profitable bets around the president's
military decisions in Venezuela and
Iran. This is very interesting because
we can all see the data about a number
of massive trades that were put on at
very interesting timing that paid off if
you were to know potentially some
information that the president was going
to make in terms of Venezuela or Iran.
>> And I think the timing of this email is
significant. It happened on March 24th,
which was the day after all of this. The
day before, to your point, the president
said that he had productive
conversations with Iran, a pause in
fighting, stock surge, and 15 minutes
before that you had a huge amounts of
trading. I think it's going to be
interesting to see how this settles out
with the likes of Polymarket and the
other event betting kind of websites
because oversight for them is a little
bit less, regulation is a little bit
less. They've had problems before and
still a lot of these trades have been
frozen by these platforms. They're
trying to figure out exactly how to
handle them. They want more liquidity.
Why would you trade on these things if
you're just going to get a bunch of
insider trading get done?
>> Right, exactly. It feels like if you're
just anyone, it's going to be stacked
against you. I know there's been so much
talk about this with Iran, but remember
Venezuela? A user gained roughly
$450,000 on Polymarket, perfectly timed
bet regarding the arrest and capture of
Nicolas Maduro.
>> It also keeps happening. It happened
with the Nobel Peace Prize, too. Right
before they announced the winner, you
saw the contracts surging for the
eventual winner.
It's these kind of sketchy things.
Again, I get back to this idea of if
you're a regular person, you don't have
inside information, it looks less
attractive to you.
>> And actually it's becoming a campaign
issue. Rahm Emanuel is talking about the
fact that they need to ban anyone
working in the government from betting
on these kind of sites, Polymarket and
Kalshi.
>> that feels pretty straightforward to me.
I feel like that that probably wouldn't
be controversial. You'd hope.
>> Probably not, but then Congress would
need would need to vote on it. We'll
see. All right, crude climbing back
close to $100 a barrel. Saudi Arabia
saying its output has been cut by more
than half a million barrels a day due to
Iranian attacks. Bloomberg's Anthony Di
Paola joins us now from Dubai. Anthony,
thank you so much for joining us. We're
talking about how this ceasefire is
holding on, but we have seen attacks
continue on key facilities in Saudi
Arabia as well as Kuwait. What does the
damage look like?
Good morning, Annemarie. Yeah, you're
right. The ceasefire is there. It came
in
our time here in in the Middle East on
Wednesday morning just about an hour or
so before that deadline
from Donald Trump that he was going to
go after the power plants
and and other facilities in in Iran
likely
causing reciprocal strikes in the Gulf,
but we did see
a strike on a key pipeline in Saudi
Arabia just hours after that ceasefire
happened.
That knocked out hit a pumping station
knocked out about 10% of the the flow
capacity on that pipeline and that
pipeline is a major export route for
Saudi crude. With Hormuz still blocked,
the Iranians claim it's open, but you
need to go to the Iranians to be able to
get through it. So effectively it's
blocked. We haven't seen tankers go
through there.
The Saudis therefore using their
cross-country pipeline that takes oil
from their main fields
in the deserts around the Persian Gulf
all the way across the country to the
port of Yanbu on the Red Sea where it's
able to access
global markets.
Already exports
the export capacity from that port is
less than Saudi Arabia's normal exports
to the market and this attack taking
about 10% of that capacity off
risks hurting that even more. So that
that just highlights some of the risks
to the infrastructure and some of the
tenuous nature of oil markets right now
as we really wait to see if Hormuz can
reopen and if vessels can continue
flowing through there to get that oil
back to the market that needs to
rebalance markets, Annemarie.
Anthony, thank you so much for insight
this morning. Bloomberg's Anthony
DiPaola in Dubai. Ellen Wald of the
Atlantic Council writing this morning,
there is no maritime certainty and there
has been no indication from Iran that
ships will be allowed to transit near
its waters safely. Ellen joins us now.
Ellen, it's an excellent point because
although you heard the White House say
there has been some uptick, even the
president yesterday said he doesn't like
what he's seeing and he doesn't like
that they're going to be charging some
tolls. Is that the big item on the
negotiating table this weekend?
I I think that combined with uh some
continued um you know attacks, the
attack on the East-West pipeline and uh
the one on Kuwait have to be uh the very
first orders of business because it's
not even what the ceasefire uh you know
agreed to. This is This is not a
ceasefire. If in fact ships cannot
transit and uh you know areas including
important oil installations in the
Middle East are still being subject to
drone attacks, whether it's from Iran or
whether it's from uh Iranian proxies in
in other areas, it's basically the same
thing at this point. When Tehran says
they're going to be charging tolls and
we've have seen them charge tolls. I
know one vessel paid about $2 million
for a safe transit through the strait,
is that acceptable to Gulf countries?
That's not acceptable to anyone. I mean,
there are uh you know international
maritime uh conventions that countries
agree to which say that um you know you
can't just charge tolls or you can't you
can't charge for passage of uh you know
in the seas and in areas. I mean, this
is a very fundamental uh idea. You know,
this is not the Suez Canal. This is not
the Panama Canal. The Strait of Hormuz
was not constructed by a particular
country. It doesn't even lie within
Iran's territorial bounds. It's not even
the same as uh you know when you
consider the Dardanelles which is uh an
area that you know Turkey is is on both
sides of this that waterway and does
charge a very minimal, you know, fee for
ships that's generally considered to
account for like Coast Guard services
and and safe passage. Iran is not
setting it Iran's not doing anything
here. It's just charging a toll because
it can and to assert its dominance. And
and that's not acceptable in, you know,
international maritime agreements that
we've had for, you know, hundreds of
years now. Ellen, be beyond the strait
itself as our reporter Anthony DePaulo
was pointing out, you also had this
attack on Saudi's East-West pipeline.
How big of a threat are those pipelines
and for Hezbollah, the other regional
proxies of Iran, what does the threat
look like there for that type of
disruption to occur?
That's a huge issue and, you know, it's
been the kind of threat that we've been
basically expecting and waiting for for
the entire war is that Iran will hit
something that's vital for, you know,
vital oil infrastructure in the region
and hitting the East-West pipeline,
hitting a pumping station there, they've
they've taken out vital oil
infrastructure now. And and that's not
going to be repaired overnight
necessarily. And so, you know, once
you've got, you know, you've got, you
know, Saudi Arabia not really able to
export out of the Persian Gulf and now
their their other outlet is damaged,
plus you've got Yanbu, their port on the
other side, you know, under threat from
Iranian proxies like the Houthis,
there's still a very, very serious
threat to oil, to ships, to trade in
this region that cannot be ignored. If
in fact more severe and and the threat
has even grown since, you know, the
earlier days of the war because these
missiles are finding their targets now.
So, given all those risks, Ellen, you
still have an oil futures market by this
time next year is pricing something
around $75 a barrel. Do you think the
risk is greater than that? Do you think
there should be more a premium to just
how expensive oil and energy prices will
be considering either lasting scars or
continued concerns on the battle front?
Absolutely. I think that um the the
price that oil is going for on the
market does not reflect either the
reality on the ground of what uh actual
customers are paying for oil. Uh and it
also doesn't reflect the reality that
it's going to take a while to get things
back to where they were. I mean, we're
not even There's going to be a backlog
of ships for at least a month, okay? And
that doesn't even take into account the
fact that um you know, there are is
serious damage that's going to take
months, if not on the LNG front, years
to repair. And that's not being
reflected in the oil market. Now, it's
possible that over time other uh you
know, producers will take up the slack,
but that doesn't mean that um you know,
oil is really being priced considering
uh the damage that's done, the amount of
time it's going to take to get things
back to normal. If we get a an true
ceasefire, say today, and uh you know, a
diplomatic resolution, but as long as
the IRGC remain in control, and there's
this possibility, they now know that
they can charge this toll, they can stop
traffic. Uh and so, if they're going to
remain in power, this is always going to
be hanging over the heads of any ship
that transits the strait. There's going
to be Oh, if if this stands, if this
government stands, there's going to be a
risk premium on oil that transit that
that has to leave the strait for, you
know, years to come. Well, Dr. Sultan in
a LinkedIn post this week said the final
cargoes that transited the Strait of
Hormuz before the conflict are now
arriving at their destinations. This is
where the paper traded markets are
meeting physical reality, and the 40-day
gap in global energy flows is truly
exposed. Ellen, at the same time, we're
supposed to have this evening at
midnight a key waiver uh expire for
purchases of Russian crude. How
challenging is the energy shock going to
get? How much more acute is it going to
feel for Asian countries?
I think it's going to feel more acute
unless they just decide to defy this
this waiver and continue to purchase
from Russia. Or the Trump administration
could decide to renew it, although
you know, that's a that's a card that
they hold. If they can if they decide
not to renew that waiver, that could
help put additional pressure on Iran to
you know, to to make these changes. Now,
I don't think Iran is going to do that
because this is Iran's final card that
it holds. And so Iran is not going to
let that go without a without a fight.
And so I do think that the market that
the paper market, that you know, the
market we see on our on our computers
every day, that's not reflecting the
reality of what's about to hit Asia.
Ellen, thank you so much for your time
this morning. Ellen Wald of the Atlantic
Council. Let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning. Here's
your Bloomberg brief.
Russia and Ukraine agree to a ceasefire
from Saturday afternoon through Sunday
to mark Orthodox Easter. Russian
President Vladimir Putin made a similar
gesture of an Easter truce last year,
during which Russia and Ukraine accused
each other of breaches.
China's exports of electric vehicles
jumped to a record high in March as the
global energy shock renewed interest in
EVs. Overseas shipments jumped 140% from
a year ago with BYD accounting for about
1/3 of the total. And Treasury Secretary
Scott Bessent and Fed Chair Jerome
Powell warning Wall Street that
Anthropic's latest AI model could usher
in a new era of cyber risk. Regulators
fear Anthropic's system is powerful
enough to identify and exploit major
vulnerabilities across the financial
grid. And that's your Bloomberg brief.
Up next this morning, owning
opportunity.
The bond market looks pretty good. It's
held in phenomenally well over the last
6 weeks and investors don't want to miss
this opportunity the way they did last
year with liberation day. Krishna Guha
of Evercore ISI joins us next. You don't
want to miss that conversation. You're
watching Bloomberg Surveillance.
Good morning. Welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance. A lot of risk this Friday
morning. Although obviously we're not
seeing that in the futures market.
First, the market needs to digest CPI
data. Very important inflation data
coming up because we will have the
impact of the higher oil prices due to
the war part of the CPI data. And then
on top of that, it's not really a
weekend. It is a working weekend given
the fact that we have incredibly
important discussions taking place in
Islamabad between the US and Iranian
delegations. Under surveillance this
morning, owning opportunity.
Investors are under allocated to fixed
income. They don't want to miss this
back up in yields. They want to get into
the bond market. It starts with where is
fair value. I think the Fed is in
hibernation mode. I like that. The bond
market looks pretty good. It held in
phenomenally well over the last 6 weeks
and investors don't want to miss this
opportunity the way they did last year
with liberation day. Here's the latest.
Yields holding steady as investors await
fresh inflation data for clues into the
Fed's next move. Krishna Guha of
Evercore ISI writing, "The market is now
discounting a clear skew to one cut from
the Fed this year." Krishna joins us
now. Krishna, I like what Bob Michael of
JP Morgan said to us yesterday. The
Fed's basically in hibernation mode. Do
they need more information right now?
Oh, sure they do. And they're in in rush
whatsoever. Look, I think the baseline
is that the Fed
uh having got some reassurance from the
last labor report that the labor market
is okay, is going to spend the next
roughly 6 months policing the inflation
shock from oil, making sure that it's
not seeping into core inflation more
than a bit, making sure it's not
contaminating expectations or wage price
setting behaviors. And if it validates
that and if it validates the underlying
disinflation is still coming through as
they expect, then and only then they can
turn back to consideration of a rate
cut.
Are you confident that that scenario can
play out, Krishna? We're going to get
CPI in just under 2 hours time. You also
have PCE data already from February
showing a persistent uptick in
inflation. Do you think it can remain
well-behaved despite the disruption to
energy markets?
So, I think the answer to that is yes.
Am I 100% certain the answer to that is
yes? No. And if I was a central banker,
I would go out of my way to be a wary,
careful, etc., etc., etc. But look, even
the core PCE print that we got yesterday
actually wasn't so bad. Why? Because the
heat was in goods. We understand why
goods are strong. It's mostly tariff
pass-through with a little nudge up in
that computer software and accessories
category from spillover from AI capex.
The real question is is core services
ex-housing
behaving or is it getting stuck? And we
actually got a quite reassuring soft
print on those services inflation data
yesterday. Now, of course, when CPI
comes out today, everything will be
swamped by the initial headline
inflation shock from energy. The
question though is 6 months from now, is
that turning out to be a one-and-done or
something more serious? We do though
keep getting these supply shocks to the
economy and everyone is this one-off.
It's something that Michael Purvis of of
Tal Bachman has has discussed with Anne
Marie and myself that maybe it is just
more of a feature of this American
economy. The fact that we are fragile
enough to continue to get supply shocks.
Should there be some level at which we
just forever not forever, but for a long
time just price in higher inflation.
That is just a feature we can't escape.
So I don't think it's a feature of the
fragility of the US economy. I think if
you wanted to make that argument, the
argument you'd make is that the world in
some more structural sense has become
more geopolitically unstable,
more vulnerable to a range of shocks,
whether they're conflict-related shocks,
indeed whether they're pandemic-related
shocks, trade-related shocks. And it's
from those that you might get a higher
frequency of supply shocks than we've
been used to in the past. I think that's
certainly something we should take
seriously. Is it going to mean that
inflation
remains, you know, 3% or higher than
that going forward? I don't think so in
the base case, but again, I would police
it if I was the Fed.
I think it's more likely that inflation
over the sort of medium to long haul is
a bit more volatile rather than
averaging a lot higher under this
regime.
Can a Kevin Warsh come in and do
nothing?
Well, I think Kevin will be angling to
get to a point where he can justify
cutting rates. That's not the same thing
as cutting rates out get out the door.
I think Kevin's posture will be that
look, we have faced a series of serious
inflation shocks on a backward-looking
basis. That was the pandemic, then the
tariffs, and now oil.
But looking forward,
we have the AI shock unfolding, which is
going to lift productivity and is going
to act as a force of disinflation. So, I
think Kevin is going to try to get us to
look forward. After all, monetary policy
is supposed to be forward-looking,
rather than look backward. And really
the key debate and the judgments that
will have to be made will be about
trying to get the right balance between
that forward-looking perspective, which
should, in my view, incorporate AI
productivity and disinflation, and the
necessary data dependence to really
understand whether these shocks that we
have experienced
have just accumulated to a point where
they're starting to corrupt the
underlying inflation process. Just
quickly, Krishna, do you think he is
going to be confirmed in time for May
16th?
It's looking dicey at this point, right?
Um,
you know, we've had some media reports
over the last 24 hours suggesting that a
a sort of tentative
16th April, that would have been next
week, hearing is now not going to happen
and that there's no date yet set for
when Walsh will have his hearing.
Be Why is that? Well, very obviously
because they haven't resolved the
underlying issue, which is the DOJ has
not buried its investigation into Powell
and therefore Tillis won't release the
hold on Walsh. There's no point really
him coming to do his hearing. It looks
to me like it's increasingly likely that
Kevin won't be ready confirmed in time
to take over on May 16th. And that
separately, even if he's confirmed at
the last minute, gets in the door on May
16th, it feels to me increasingly likely
that Powell is going to stay on for a
period of some months as a regular
governor. Wow. Krishna Guha, what a call
there of Evercore ISI. Thank you so much
for joining us. Coming up next, Tiffany
McGee of Pivotal Advisors, Michael Zezas
of Morgan Stanley, David Tinsley of Bank
of America Institute, and Bob McNally of
Rapidan Energy Advisors as we do see oil
ticking up higher today as we head into
those talks tomorrow in Islamabad with
the Strait of Hormuz effectively still
closed. You're watching Bloomberg
Surveillance.
CPI will give us the first look at how
these higher energy prices are seeping
out into the broader economy.
>> This is a big hit to consumers and
households and businesses.
>> We don't actually think these increases
in in in oil prices will have all that
big of an effect on things.
>> We're not seeing sustained inflationary
pressures. We in the markets accept that
a 2% inflation target is a myth. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and Annmarie
Hordern.
Good morning and welcome to the second
hour of Bloomberg Surveillance. It's
7:00 here in New York City. Markets are
waiting for Islamabad as delegations
from Iran and the United States prepare
for talks in Pakistan. The ceasefire
remains fragile. And the president
though lacked by the frustration he's
frustrated with the lack of traffic in
the Strait of Hormuz. On Truth Social,
Trump said Iran is doing a very poor
job. This is not the agreement we have.
Of course, it comes as well as a key
licenses from the Treasury Department
allowing the purchase of Russian oil is
going to expire at midnight. We'll see
the war's impact on inflation data later
today, Danny. This is going to be really
important inflation data given the fact
that it includes all of the spikes we've
seen in energy prices because of the war
in Iran.
>> It's the first time we're going to get a
key piece of economic data that has
that. It also follows February data PCE,
which we learned this week, which was
sticky before the war even started. So,
it's a difficult way and idea to take
risk this morning cuz it's not even just
that. What if everything looks good and
you load up the boat on risk and you
start to short Treasuries or whatever
you want to do and then all of a sudden
talks fall apart on the weekend? How do
you position for something like that? It
is incredibly complicated and there are
so many factors going in.
>> I mean, I've been even thinking about
what if one side doesn't show up this
weekend. Um this is obviously a group of
people that there's no trust in this
relationship. There's never been trust
in this relationship. And the one thing
the United States really wants is the
one piece of leverage the Iranians have.
And I don't see any indication yet that
they're willing to give up their
stronghold on the strait.
>> The point plans are are so far apart at
this moment. And add to that, you've
been also talking about this this
morning, Anne Marie, is the fact that
you're also going to have uh Israeli and
Lebanese delegations meeting. They're
talking at the ambassador level,
according to the Wall Street Journal.
And that has been a key reason why Iran
has said that the US has violated the
ceasefire, that Iran continues to attack
Lebanon. So, it's not even just the
Iranian talks with the United States.
It's also that, too.
>> It's multiple parties. I think Maha put
it really well this morning from
Carnegie Endowment. She said the maximum
of what Iran is willing to offer is not
the minimum of what the US will accept,
which is why the fact that they're just
meeting might actually be the success
of these negotiations this weekend. So,
markets this morning, of course, they
are waiting for whatever comes out of
these talks this weekend, but they're
pretty much pricing in this ceasefire.
You have equity futures this morning
relatively flat, but we've had 7 days of
gain gains on the S&P 500. US Treasury
Treasury yield up slightly 4.28%
and New York crude this morning $98.11.
Oil is going to be the focus when it
comes to these talks this weekend. And
if we see any inclination from the
Iranians to start allowing more free
flow of oil vessels and cargo through
the Strait of Hormuz. Coming up this
morning, Tiffany McGee of Pivotal
Advisors, as a re- relief rally runs out
of steam. Michael Zezas of Morgan
Stanley ahead of US-Iran peace talks,
and Bob McNally of Rapidan Energy, as
Tehran tightens its grip on her muse
flows. We begin this hour with stocks
flat and crude climbing as President
Trump unleashes new threats to Iran over
the Strait of Hormuz. Bloomberg's Jamana
Bersechi joins us now from Dubai.
Jamana, thanks so much, and I know
you're going to have a very busy weekend
ahead. What can we expect?
Yeah, well, the challenge here is
turning what has been quite a fragile
truce, but it is still largely up being
upheld. And I should say that the as of
Friday, there have been no reported
incidents of strikes either way at
anywhere anywhere in the region as it
pertains to the regional ceasefire. So,
it is being upheld, but the challenge,
of course, is to take this temporary
truce and turn it into a longer-term
permanent cessation of hostilities. And
now, we know that the US delegation is
on their way or reportedly has a arrived
in Islamabad in the early hours of this
morning led by J.D. Vance. Unclear at
this point whether the Iranian
delegation has actually landed. There
hasn't been confirmation yet, though
overnight reports suggest that they will
be represented by the speaker of the
parliament. That is Mohammad Qalibaf,
who's been very vocal over the last
couple of weeks on social media about
their intransigence and really
reaffirming
some of those key points that they've
been insisting on, including the rights
of sovereignty over the Strait of
Hormuz. And then at the Iranian Foreign
Minister, Abbas Araghchi, as well. Now,
one of the big questions that you and
Danny were just talking about is whether
the Lebanon situation is going to
torpedo discussions. And I think what
has become apparent in the last 24 hours
is the White House and President Trump
himself did want to see a de-escalation
of sorts
on the Hezbollah front in Lebanon,
especially after that day of extremely
heavy bombardment on Wednesday, which
led to the deaths of over 300 people in
Lebanon.
And so yesterday evening, we got word
from the Israeli Prime Minister saying
that they are willing to start direct
discussions with the Lebanese
government. And to be clear here, this
is the Lebanese government. It is not
Hezbollah themselves, to talk about the
further disarmament of Hezbollah and the
potential longer term security
arrangement. That seemed to be enough in
order for the US to push forward with
the negotiations. The question is, is it
enough for the Iranian side? They are
maintaining that the regional ceasefire
has to include Lebanon as well. I think
many in Lebanon would say that they have
the right to actually assert their own
sovereignty in this situation. So one
thing to bear in mind, the other big
topic of course is the Strait of Hormuz.
Overnight, President Trump saying that
Iran are not keeping to the terms of the
ceasefire, which is an unconditional
opening of the Strait, free passage for
all vessels. They shouldn't be charging
a transit fee, which is what reportedly
they are doing. And so the question here
is whether we can come out the other
side of these negotiations with that
free unconditional passage of of for for
vessels through the Strait of Hormuz and
some of the other terms that the US were
insisting on even before the war
started, including minimal enrichment,
possible retrieval of that enriched
uranium stockpile, and Iran really
ceasing to
to shore up and to provide support to
some of their proxies in the region
crucial to the Hezbollah question as
well. So there's still a lot to get
through in the coming days. Jumana,
thank you so much. Bloomberg's Jumana
Bercetche in Dubai. Here's the view from
Wall Street this morning. Tiffany McGee
of Pivotal Advisors writing markets are
sensitive to any changes in energy flows
or escalation risk. The recent move in
equities reflects relief around
geopolitics, but not a full resolution.
Tiffany joins us now for more. So
Tiffany, when it comes to the two key
points going into the weekend, we have
inflation data at 8:30, and then of
course these talks on Saturday. What do
you think the market's going to be more
focused on?
Well, I think you know, a a good example
of this is we can look at what happened
yesterday, right? And so, you know,
yesterday looked like a strong day on
the surface, but the details kind of
really tell a more nuanced story. So,
you had stocks higher, uh but yields
were also moving up uh little over like
4.3% um and oil back to near um you
know, $100. Uh and so, this really
wasn't a clean rally at all. It was
really more of markets adjusting to
uncertainty and not pricing it away. Um
so, I think as we kind of go into the
weekend, we still have a lot of
uncertainty. So, you know, that that's
something that we really need to need
need to continue to watch. How much of
all of this this Tiffany is just
positioning? This is something I've been
asking constantly over the past week cuz
the market moves yes on ceasefire hopes,
but otherwise have been odd. For
example, software stocks plunged 5%
over the past 3 days alongside energy.
There's no logical reason for software
to be falling in a ceasefire unless it's
just hedge funds re-upping on their
short positions just because this allows
them to go back to the bets they had
before. So, how much of this market is
not really being priced on fundamentals,
but it's just simply positioning?
Well, I think it's a combination of
both, you know? And so, listen, we've
got um I I think that we are really in
an headline uh environment. And so,
that's really moving the markets. You
know, we can look at even what's going
on over the past few weeks with the
price of oil um
with the fact that even about you know,
2 weeks ago, we see um we saw all this
volatility in the market, but yet
earnings expectations continued to
continued to um to to increase. And
that's one thing we'll also kind of be
looking at going in heading into like
earning season. We are really in a
fundamentals-driven market right now.
It's really not about hype anymore.
Um Bank of America's Michael Hartnett is
out with a note this morning saying that
investors should flock into commodities
for the next few years. He thinks that a
surge in commodities is going to last
for that a few years and that in a
portfolio it might even supplant
popularity around equities. That this
becomes a big chunk to diversify away
from bonds. Do you think commodities
deserve that big shiny place in a
portfolio as well?
Listen, so our clients are institutional
investors and so, you know, um,
a diversification is really the key for
us and we think about positioning, we're
really focused on our clients' strategic
asset allocation and then making those
tactical moves. Commodities do have a
place in a portfolio. We like to really
invest in real assets. We have a
combination of real assets,
infrastructure, REITs, commodities. All
of those things act as a diversifier to
traditional, um,
stocks and bonds. And so, yeah, I
definitely do think that they have a
place in a portfolio. What place does
gold have in the portfolio, Tiffany?
That this should be geopolitical angst,
concern about what the Fed is going to
do. It seems like a good time to be
piling into the precious metal, but it's
been trading a lot just like a momentum
trade.
It has. And so, you know, when I think
about how we position portfolios for our
clients, again, we we have we set that
that strategic asset allocation first. A
gold is always a a portion of our
clients' portfolio, but we do so, uh,
through through a fund structure where
we have exposure to other metals as
well.
So, we don't have a ton of direct
exposure to gold, but that's how we like
to play it. We like to play it in a in a
more diversification in more
diversified, uh, position. So, if there
aren't enough first headlines today with
CPI, talks and negotiations over the
weekend, next week we really get into
the earning season in earnest. It'll
kick off with Goldman Sachs on Monday,
Tiffany. What are you looking out for?
What signals are you hoping to hear from
the big banks in order to understand
where we are in this American economy
and in the financial sector.
Yeah, so I think as we head into earning
season, I think the numbers really
matter. Uh but the messaging matters
more. So, we're watching a few things.
We're definitely looking at margins. Can
companies really absorb the higher
energy costs or are they passing them
through to their customers? We're also,
you know, on on the AI front looking for
that AI payoff. So, you know, we know AI
is is driving growth, but are we seeing
real returns yet? That's really
important. And so, we'll also be paying
attention to guidance. And so, you know,
with much uncertainty, right? We're in
this this period of uncertainty. Um you
know, forward guidance really matters
more than the quarter to us. And also,
we're looking at consumer sensitivity.
You know, are higher prices are higher
energy prices starting to impact demand?
So, it's really like a show-me earning
season, not uh a tell-me earning season.
That's a good way to put it, Tiffany.
Thank you so much for joining us this
morning, Tiffany McGee of Pivotal
Advisors. Let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere we're watching this
morning. Here's your Bloomberg Brief.
The US and Iran heading into high-level
peace talks in Pakistan tomorrow. Ahead
of the talks, President Donald Trump
warning Iran against charging fees on
tankers passing through the Strait of
Hormuz. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu agreeing to direct
negotiations with Lebanon. Netanyahu
saying there is no ceasefire between the
nations and vowed to keep attacking
Iran-backed Hezbollah. The Wall Street
Journal reporting the talks will start
at the ambassador level. And the four
astronauts of NASA's Artemis 2 are on
their way home. Their mission broke
records taking them further from Earth
than any humans had ever been as they
got closer to the surface of the moon
than any astronaut in more than half a
century. Artemis 2 is expected to splash
down the Pacific Ocean tonight. And I
cannot wait to hear what those
astronauts have to say. I always feel
bad for them when the cameras come out
and they're expected to be on camera
right when they get out cuz like they
can barely walk. They were without
gravity for a while.
>> We should give them a little bit of a
moment, a breather, see their families,
maybe shower, have something to eat. But
it's so cool. These pictures are
incredible.
>> It is really, really cool to see the
other side of the moon in in such uh
high definition, to see the Earth. It's
always a bit humbling to be like there
are so many horrible and crazy things
happening in the world, but here it is
from like the look back Right.
>> from Earth what it what it what it
really is, just a little blue marble.
Well, we look forward to their journey
home. That's your Bloomberg Brief. Up
next on the program, a fragile peace.
This is a a fragile truce. Ceasefires
are fragile by nature. We have seen an
uptick of traffic in the strait, and I
will reiterate the president's
expectation and demand that the Strait
of Hormuz is reopened uh immediately,
quickly, and safely. Mike Zezas of
Morgan Stanley joins us next. You're
watching Bloomberg Surveillance.
Good morning. Welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance. I'm Annmarie Hordern
alongside Danny Burger today. Lisa and
Jonathan are off. Under surveillance
this morning, a fragile peace.
This is a a fragile truce. Ceasefires
are fragile by nature. Of course, we
want to see the ceasefire uh effectuated
and abided by by all parties as quickly
as possible. We have seen an uptick of
traffic in the strait, and I will
reiterate the president's expectation
and demand that the Strait of Hormuz is
reopened uh immediately, quickly, and
safely.
Here's the latest. President Trump
putting pressure on Iran demanding
Tehran reopen the Strait of Hormuz ahead
of peace talks in Pakistan tomorrow.
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins us now.
So, Tyler, when is J.D. Vance set to
arrive in Pakistan and what does it look
like in terms of success for this
administration?
Hey, Annmarie, good morning. Well, Vice
President J.D. Vance is making his way
over to Pakistan for these talks to
start tomorrow. He'll be accompanied by
special envoy Steve Whitcoff, as well as
the president's son-in-law, Jared
Kushner. Though people familiar with the
matter do tell Bloomberg News the fact
that the Vice President is now taking
the lead in these talks may indicate a
more cautious approach as the US looks
for a potential off-ramp. The fact that
the talks are happening is considered to
be forward progress considering that the
demands, at least publicly from both
sides, appear very far apart. And the
White House does maintain that these
talks are on track even after yesterday
it appeared that they had hit that
potential roadblock over Israel's
operations in Lebanon against the
Iranian-backed militant group Hezbollah.
Now, the Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu said earlier today that those
operations in Lebanon will continue
though it does appear that the pledge of
direct talks between Israel and Lebanon
have helped to smooth the path forward.
But we still know there is a lot that
has to get done, not just for a
longer-term agreement, but to make sure
that this two-week ceasefire is upheld
because if President Trump's posts last
night on Truth Social are any
indication, the US is going to ramp up
the pressure to ensure the reopening of
the Strait of Hormuz. Because, Annmarie,
at this point it doesn't appear that
Iran is going to let up that leverage.
Though there were some new headlines
this morning breaking including that a
Russian flag tanker has appeared to
exited the strait and that seven
additional Malaysian flag tankers are
set to depart as well. But still we are
only at a fraction of the total vessel
traffic where we were before the war
began. It's pay-for-play. Bloomberg's
Tyler Kendall, thank you so much for
joining us. Joining now to continue the
conversation is Michael Zezas of Morgan
Stanley. So, you say Good morning,
Michael.
>> Morning. Thanks for joining us. So, you
say you have to stay humble and it's a
scenario-based approach investors should
be looking at. So, walk us through the
scenarios you're thinking about as we
head into this weekend.
Yeah, so again, I think it's it's really
difficult to understand what happens in
the next 24, 48, 72 hours. But, if we
think a little more medium-term, a
couple weeks out, I think the incentives
are pretty well aligned across most
actors to at least have Hormuz opened in
in some meaningful way. Complete return
to normal, that that part's really
unclear, right? But, if you're getting
some oil and some natural gas flowing
back through in some meaningful way,
then
um our commodity strategy team led by
Martin Rats has done a really wonderful
job laying out the price arrangements
across different uh a full
normalization, of course, you maybe
could get something uh you know, in the
$60 a barrel. We might be living more in
this partial reopening scenario, $80 to
$100 a barrel. And of course, if the
whole thing breaks down and we thought
it broke down sustainably, then the
demand destruction point that you could
go to is $120, $150 a barrel. But, if
we're in that kind of $80 to $100 range,
um even if you sort of have this fragile
peace, fragile equilibrium, that's the
type of thing that we think is still
consistent with positive US economic
growth, the equity markets rallying
back, even if it is suboptimal relative
to the conditions you had coming into
the conflict. Why do you think though
there is this consensus that the
Iranians really are ready to open the
strait and have it be normal? Because
this is their only piece of leverage
with Washington. Yeah, I mean, I don't
know there's a consensus that that
everyone's ready for it to be normal.
Look at the price of oil and that looks
kind of Yeah, well, I think that's this
where price matters quite a bit, right?
So, normal, if we define normal as what
existed before the conflict started,
then I think you'd expect to see prices
of oil be much, much lower than they are
right now. So, the premium of where you
are right now and maybe, you know, if
even if you get down to something like
$80 a barrel, that premium reflects
potential that you're only getting
partially reopened and probably this
kind of long-term overhang of risk,
right? The US and Israel might deem it
to be in their interest periodically, if
Iran is starting to rebuild militarily,
uh to to restart conflict. And so, if
you're going to have this kind of
lingering risk and lingering uncertainty
of military conflict, until you sort of
rewire supply chains around that, you
remove Hormuz as a choke point, there's
always going to be this lingering
premium that would go on top of what
would otherwise be normal, and that
would be uh quite a bit lower prices
than what we're seeing today on oil.
>> Just just be clear. I want to make sure
I didn't mishear you. When you were
saying that $100 a barrel, that's
something that the American economy
could live with. We could still have
strong economic growth. Companies would
be okay. Is that your estimation?
>> That that's where our economists say.
You're sort of starting from a point
right now, okay, at least over the
course of the rest of this year, where
the US consumer um is strong enough.
There's enough CapEx flowing through the
economy because of secular trends, AI,
industrial build-out, for example. And
frankly, one of the trends that's
reinforced by this dynamic, which is
supply chain realignment and companies
having to spend to sort of immunize
their supply chains from various choke
points. Hormuz just kind of being um one
of them. So, with that much CapEx
flowing and that much um consumer
spending going, the the dynamic here
where the economy wouldn't be strong
enough would be if oil prices go to the
point where it creates like real demand
destruction, not just on uh uh on people
driving, but also the cost of that
starts to sort of seep into other areas
of the economy. Our economists'
assessment is that you've got to have
oil above $120 a barrel for several
months before that would happen.
>> Is there Is there not just some though
psychological dynamic to seeing above $4
on average at the pump? That you get a
consumer that starts to pull back, that
it changes consumer behavior. Or is that
still not enough?
Well, I I
it is. It is. It's just it's not enough
to actually reduce growth in a
meaningful way down or in substantial
>> in pockets of the economy? Like consumer
companies or or things like that? Are
there pockets of the economy that start
to look weaker? Well, it certainly
exacerbates the trend of the K-shaped
economy, right? Because you if you're
talking about the sort of basket of
goods that different types of consumers
um have,
gasoline obviously makes up a much
bigger portion of the consumer bucket on
the lower end of the economy. So, that
does matter quite a bit, but in the
aggregate, if we're talking about GDP
and can we continue to grow and the
CAPEX that's sort of boosting that for
example, the AI industrial build-out,
thinks about 25% of growth this year and
we think that's sort of relatively
immune to what's going on right now.
That is still going to push GDP. What
about, cuz I know you have some thoughts
about the midterm elections. Yeah. Could
Republicans withstand $100 oil? Maybe
the economy can, but
>> Yeah. I mean, listen, the the prediction
markets say no. The polls suggest the
same thing. So, investors do have to be
thinking about a midterm election
dynamic where congressional power shifts
into the Democrats' hands.
>> Even on the Senate, you think?
Well, again, I think that's that's more
of a toss-up, but
uh the House of Representatives, again,
if you look at polls and prediction
markets, would suggest that it's it's a
likelihood at this point that Democrats
are taking over. I don't know that
there's much of a functional again, just
purely from the investors' perspective
that there's much of a functional
difference between whether the Democrats
get the House or the House and the
Senate. Or said differently, what policy
changes come from either of those
outcomes that would affect markets. And
and we've been arguing and there's
really not that much because a lot of
the policy dynamics we're talking about
right now, including what's going on
with Iran, it's purely flowing through
executive power. So, maybe it sends a
soft signal about 2029 and future
policies. I think that would be far too
speculative to actually change
investment strategy around.
>> the administration wants to get through
some more fiscal spending, they would
have to do it before November.
Yeah, very likely. Very likely.
>> a defense
budget, a higher defense budget they're
looking for.
>> Yeah, yeah, likely. And therefore,
that's probably what's going to happen.
And again, sort of relieves the pressure
on the midterms to catalyze some other
outcome that the market might be
concerned about or looking for. Could
the bond market handle more fiscal
spending from this administration? We're
talking about a $1.5 trillion defense
budget.
Uh yeah, we think so. I mean, listen, I
think the the it's not that there's some
um
you know, a magical number or limit that
the bond market can or can't handle. So,
I think in the aggregate, the numbers
that we're talking about spread out over
a 10-year basis
are not all that meaningful. But, I
mean, certainly
we don't seem to have a set of policies
or we're not on a policy trajectory
that's specifically aimed at fiscal
sustainability or changing deficit to
GDP in a meaningful way. Perhaps it is
sort of
leveraging the idea that we're going to
have better growth in the future, maybe
driven by productivity, maybe driven by
AI, but not the sort of proactive
approach by Congress to address it.
Michael, thank you so much for your
important work this morning. Michael
Zezas of Morgan Stanley, especially as
we think about the scenarios that could
come out of this weekend with these
talks happening in Pakistan tomorrow.
Coming up the program, David Tinsley of
Bank of America Institute on the sharp
jump in consumer spending. Plus,
Kristina Aquino is back with us this
morning. ServiceNow falling after a
downgrade from UBS. The stock is down
more than 1%. More on that story next.
You're watching Bloomberg Surveillance.
Good morning. Welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance. I'm Anne Marie Hoardern.
It is Friday, 7:30 a.m. We're just an
hour away from CPI data. I'm joined by
Danny Burger. John and Lisa are off
today. And Danny, we have equity futures
just relatively flat, but you have to
remember we've had seven consecutive
days to the upside even amidst this war
right now where the truce is sort of
there. You see an off-ramp both sides
maybe want to take. They are meeting
which someone told me last night the
fact that they are meeting is a success.
Um but at the same time we really don't
understand how long this can hold for
and is it really credible?
>> It's a market that is just happy enough
with a path to peace, not full on peace.
It is remarkable if you look at where we
are. We are down now only two per 2.2%
from all-time highs. On the year we're
only down 0.3%.
It's a market that's been extremely
resilient. I wonder if that will change
today Anne Marie cuz it's the pattern
we've seen for this market. You get a
rally on Monday and Tuesday and you
start to weaken as the end of the week
comes through. We haven't seen that this
week to your point of seven days of a
rally, but we'll see if they
>> that.
>> And there's really no weekend this
weekend because these talks are really
important tomorrow. Of course in the
bond space um nothing really changing
here. We have 4:30 on the 10-year yield.
Again, this will be important in terms
of what happens with the CPI data and
what does the Fed do with that CPI data?
Do they look through this inflationary
shock we may see because of what is
going on with oil prices and potentially
a question mark about how this all ends
and that is why this board is so
important right now. Brent crude and WTI
wow, look at WTI for the June contract.
We are sub $90. This is something this
White House would like to see. It's
pretty remarkable considering the lack
of traffic going through the Strait of
Hormuz considering all the risk events
on the weekend. And then if you look
further out in contracts, we easily get
below $80 a barrel before this time next
year. It's something Ellen Wald was
talking about that there does remain and
I'll say you've been great on this again
Anne Marie. There does remain this
disconnect between physical markets and
paper markets.
>> Absolutely. It's a complete disconnect
because the Strait of Hormuz is still
essentially shut. I say controlled by
Iran because they are letting some
vessels through, but far cry from the
normal flows we saw before the start of
this conflict. All right, we're 2 hours
away from the cash open. Let's get you
some morning movers with Christina Quick
now. Hey Christine. Hey Anne Marie. All
right, let's take a look at optics
shares this morning still going strong
ahead of the market open. That is
because of comments from Research saying
that the demand for its products from
the biggest US tech companies still
accelerating. That company also saying
that they are booked solid. They are on
track to fulfill order books through
2028. CEO Michael Hurlston actually
saying that capex from hyperscalers does
not seem to have any end in sight. It's
falling further behind in fulfilling
demand. Not exactly a bad problem to
have for the company. Tell you what
though, a company that's not doing too
well in the premarket, ServiceNow. Those
shares are down more than 1% ahead of
the cash open. That comes after a
downgrade by UBS to outperform with a
$100 price target. Those shares actually
fell to a 3-year low this week because
of lingering concerns over AI disruption
in the sector. We will get a full
picture of the extent of the damage from
that narrative when ServiceNow reports
its results on April 22nd. Another
company that is being challenged in the
premarket, Sweetgreen. Well, actually
now it's in the green at the moment, but
we have seen a little bit of insider
purchases this week reported by Goldman
Sachs. Purchases of more than $3
million.
Those shares are have also been having a
hard time this year. They're down 17%.
They reported comparable sales falling
11% in the fourth quarter. That is the
biggest decline since it went public.
Higher lettuce sales or a higher lettuce
prices, I should say, also factoring in
in February. So, we'll see how that
shakes out for its results when that
comes in early May. Anne Marie and
Danny. Thanks so much, Christine. I like
how Christine's talking a lot about food
at the end of these markets. I'd say I'm
not really a fan of Sweetgreen, but
haven't they gotten a lot of flack for
skimping on chicken and things like that
for people's salads that are like $20
plus?
>> to the point where I don't know if you
saw they launched this little ad
campaign of like, "Get rid of your
protein bars. Here's this bowl of just
chicken, and that's what you should be
eating for your protein." So, I feel
like they kind of picked up on that. I
don't know if it's helped them, but
>> Oh, interesting. All right, let's talk
stocks today. On our radar this morning,
US and Iranian delegations meeting for
high-level peace talks in Pakistan
tomorrow. President Trump reiterating
his demand for Tehran to reopen the
Strait of Hormuz, calling the near
closure  dishonorable. And
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu agrees to direct negotiations
with Lebanon. Netanyahu saying there is
not currently a ceasefire between the
two nations and vowed to keep attacking
Iran-backed Hezbollah. And Treasury
Secretary Scott Bessent and Fed Chair
Jay Powell warning bank CEOs of
Anthropic's new Mythos AI. Regulators
fear the model is capable of exploiting
major vulnerabilities across the
financial grid. Now, this story is
really interesting. I think really
important. Two things that struck out to
me immediately. First off, Bessent and
Powell are having a meeting, and they're
somewhat getting along even though you
see the president jawboning Powell all
the time. And two, how dangerous and
concerned are they about this AI that
all the bank CEOs were summoned to
Washington?
>> not just them concerned. Anthropic
itself is concerned. This is the first
LLM that they're not rolling out to the
broader public. That they're being
selective because they basically saw
this thing is so powerful, it can
exploit all types of cyber uh
vulnerabilities. That this was from the
New York Times article about this. I
thought it was really interesting. So,
during safety tests for Mythos, an
Anthropic research got an email from
Mythos itself while he was eating a
sandwich in the park. It was a surprise
because the model wasn't supposed to be
online. It had broken out of its test
environment and then went on to brag
about breaking the rules and attempted
to cover its tracks. We're getting
closer to this land of a genetic AI, and
it's kind of like, cool, so we'll boost
productivity by 10%, but maybe like
bring a complete downfall to human
civilization.
>> Right, so robots just completely taking
over. The other thing that is
interesting is Anthropic's having a
massive fright right fight right now at
the same time with the DOD. So, they are
in the crosshairs right now when it
comes to a number of departments down in
Washington.
>> kind of feels like I know it's not
necessarily marketing for them, but like
kind of good marketing. We're on the
verge for an open AI IPO, and the two
are really warring against each other. I
don't know, when I read this story about
Anthropic having such good of an LLM
that they don't want to release it to
the public, I'm like, hey, Anthropic
seems ahead in this race. What also
scares me that if this is where
Anthropic is, I wonder at this point
where is China when it comes to all of
this. All right, investors are awaiting
fresh inflation data due out in just
under an hour. According to the Bank of
America Institute March consumer
checkpoint survey, consumer spending
picked up sharply in March even beyond
gasoline. David Tinsley of Bank of
America Institute joins us now. David,
thank you so much for joining us. I love
the research. Give us a sense of where
consumers are spending.
Well, I think, you know, the big story
in the data today in the report today is
that consumers are weathering the
madness of March uh really pretty well
so far. So, I'll
obviously we saw a big spike in
gasoline. That goes without saying
gasoline spending. But, even looking
aside from that, we saw a 3.6%
year-over-year rise in our card
spending, which is the same tied with
February's data, but noticeably stronger
than the second half of last year. And
you know, when you look back over the
year where are people spending, it's
discretionary services, travel, tourism,
entertainment, restaurants has had a
couple of good months just of late. Uh
and
there's also been something of a
recovery on the retail spending side as
well. Electronics being one area that
has picked up there. So, it's quite
broad-based, I'd say.
David, what's your understanding if
prices for gasoline remain or go higher
from where they are now with the
national average above $4 a barrel? How
does that impact other parts of spending
for this American consumer?
Well, you know, right now, I think it's
worth thinking about this K-shape with
regard to this. So, this top-end
consumer, this higher-income consumer,
as we show in our report today, is
seeing some really fast wage growth.
It's at 5.2%
year-over-year. The fastest it's been or
the biggest gap with lower-income wage
growth, which is at 1% since the series
our data begins in like the middle of
the 2010s.
Uh so, I think
the higher end is going to weather the
gasoline shock, and you have to keep
that shock in perspective, I think, too.
It's certainly not the largest we've
seen over the last sort of 10-15 years.
They're going to weather that relatively
satisfactory for some period of time.
Obviously, lots of uncertainty around
where that goes. Lower income, their
wage growth just 1%. We did notice in
our report their discretionary spending
growth did tick down uh in March. So, I
think where there's that a little crack,
if you like, is again at that
lower-income consumer end. But, I think
most of the consumers, helped by
well, the fact that the equity market,
as you were discussing earlier, you
know, is not sold off dramatically, also
this wage growth, and of course, tax
refunds. So, all those things are really
kind of soothing the pain of higher gas
prices for now. It it it But, do our tax
refunds to some degree, David, kind of
cancel out with higher gas prices? Do
they not provide the benefit that they
would have without this conflict?
Well, it would be nice to have tax
refunds without the high gas prices and
then you'd get an even stronger boost
for discretionary. But you know, the way
you know, a way to think about these tax
refunds is they're up about 10 to 12%
across the economy. That's that's
hundreds of dollars for the typical
household. In our data in March, the
gasoline bill was up sort of Let's say
around 30, 40 dollars
a month. So when you think about that,
you see that really the consumer, if
they spent all their tax refund increase
on gasoline, they could weather that
shock for say 6 months plus. So
one doesn't want that as the scenario of
course cuz there's there's less for
discretionary. But still it gives you an
idea that there is the stimulus is
helping soothe the consumers
headwinds from this gas gasoline price
increase.
>> But it's not just gasoline at the pump.
It's of course diesel prices which
impact especially in America farm to
table impacts grocery prices, coffee,
beef, all of that is up as well as
electricity prices. So to Danny's point,
I mean if you consider everything in
that, is it less than 6 months they can
weather this storm?
Well, that I mean that is a fair point.
You know, we only just begun to see some
of those kind of like second round
impacts as you say transport costs,
plastic costs, packaging costs, etc.
etc. So, you know, if they get if those
price increases, those price pressures
get fed through, well, yes, then under
those circumstances it would could be
less. I think when you hear from some
corporates though, they don't really
necessarily feel
in the the place to push through a lot
of price increases on the from those
supply chain pressures. So, you know,
that's to play for, I think, over the
next 6 months or so. And like we heard
from Delta, they still see individuals
traveling. When it comes to some extra
money left over, where are you seeing
consumers put that money to work?
Yeah, well,
when we look at refund checks going into
accounts, and we look at 3 weeks after
that refund
check has hit the account, pretty
obvious categories, electronics,
clothing,
airlines as you were suggesting. There's
a broad range of kind of nice-to-have
discretionary areas that people are
spending more on. Interestingly though,
people are also putting some of the
money to debt repayment, credit card
repayment, student loan repayment, which
of course is also in some ways quite a
good thing because it means that they're
building a slightly stronger balance
sheet for the situation if it does
arise, a future shocks.
David, thanks so much for your time this
morning for bringing us the insights of
this report. David Tinsley of Bank of
America Institute. We want to get you an
update now on stories we're watching
elsewhere this morning. Here's your
Bloomberg brief. Core Weave striking a
$21 billion deal to supply computing
power to Meta through 2023. The company
provides AI cloud capacity to the
Facebook parent from multiple data
centers powered in part by Nvidia's
Ruben systems of chips.
A change at the top of luxury retailer
Dolce & Gabbana, co-founder Stefano
Gabbana resigned as chairman in December
and is considering options for his 40%
stake. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg the firm is entering a new
round of debt talks with creditors. And
first lady Melania Trump denying close
ties to late sex offender Jeffrey
Epstein.
I never been friends with Epstein.
Donald and I were invited to the same
parties
as Epstein from time to time.
Since overlapping in social circles is
common
in New York City
and Palm Beach.
The first lady also adding she never
witnessed any of Epstein's crimes.
Reports say many in the White House were
caught off guard by the first lady's
statement. And that's your Bloomberg
brief. Coming up on the program,
reopening Hormuz.
The market is highly skeptical that the
ceasefire is real. It will take and will
actually open up the Strait of Hormuz.
And it's all about the barrels and the
flow. And right now we're not seeing
either of those two. Bob McNally of
Rapidan Energy joins us next. You're
watching Bloomberg Surveillance.
Good morning. Welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance. I'm Ann Marie Hordern. We
are counting down till 8:30 a.m. We are
going to get inflation data in the
United States. Really important given
the fact this is going to incorporate
what we've seen in higher energy prices
when it comes to the conflict in the
Middle East. Equity markets pretty much
just plowing along. When it comes to the
ceasefire, they believe potentially this
has legs. We've had seven days of gains
in S&P 500 futures this morning
relatively flat, but we're all in the
green across the board. And then oil is
where everyone's going to be focused on
as we head into the weekend. Of course,
J.D. Vance leading the US delegation to
Pakistan to meet with the Iranians.
Brent crude this morning for the June
contract, $96 and WTI $90. Just under
$90. That's really important Danny for
this White House to keep it below 100 if
they can. Keep below 90. And it's really
the backdrop for the talks this weekend
in trying to get the Strait of Hormuz
wide open. It's something that you would
discuss with the president about Iran
wanting to charge tolls. If this is what
Iran is doing, even if it means
reopening the strait to some degree,
does there need to be a higher premium
in oil prices just because of the
ability of Iran to really control what's
happening?
>> Also, there were no tolls before it. Of
course, the US fifth fleet was there and
protecting it in a way, but it's going
to be unacceptable not just to
Washington, but to other Gulf partners
like the UAE, Oman, Saudi Arabia, and
that's the conversation we're having
this morning. Under surveillance this
morning, reopening Hormuz.
The market is highly skeptical that the
ceasefire is real. It will take It will
actually open up the Strait of Hormuz.
So, until we start to see some sort of
convergence between global energy prices
against the Gulf Coast crude.
The message is that the ceasefire is
just headline only, and it's all about
the barrels and the flow, and right now
we're not seeing either of those two.
Here's the latest. Transit through the
Strait of Hormuz remains limited despite
President Trump's demands that Tehran
reopen the waterway ahead of peace
talks. Bob McNally of Rapidan Energy
writing any increase in Hormuz flows
would be slow and tentative, and Gulf
producers will be reluctant to restart
shut-in production until a durable deal
is on the table. Bob joins us now. Bob,
thank you so much. Your research over
the course of this conflict has been
really incredible. When it comes to
this weekend's talks, how are you
preparing clients about how to think of
this, and what does success actually
look like?
Thank you very much. You know, so we're
telling clients this. Let's just step
back and lower our expectations. All we
know for sure is that President Trump
called off what looked like to be a big
attack on Tuesday night. And since then,
the United States has stopped attacking
Iran.
That's it. Other than that, we're
talking past each other on whether we're
going to open Hormuz under what
conditions, and this and that. Saudi
Arabia is still taking fire from Iran.
Bahrain still taking fire. So, the
conflict goes on as you've noted, the
flows haven't resumed
uh and and here we are. So, going into
the weekend, I think we should have low
expectations. We'd put, you know,
there's maybe a 15, 20-ish percent that
they pull a real deal out of the hat.
You know, they have an agreement on she
restarting Hormuz on the basic framework
of a final deal, the nuclear the
missiles, the the sanctions easing.
There's a deal that's eventually going
to be made. We don't sense that it's
imminent, can't rule it out, but I would
have low expectations about a realistic
restart of Hormuz transit, which is what
the market's waiting for. Given the
headlines,
the the oil prices are moving on the
headlines, but the facts on the ground
are that there hasn't been normal flow
and we're seeing just maybe a handful a
day of vessels going through and mostly
they're Iranian or very friendly
countries.
Uh Bob, is the futures market actually
priced fairly?
Well, the futures market's very
different than the dated Brent or the
physical markets. They're two different
things. Uh
it's in the futures market where we do
see more expectations about where this
is going.
Uh I think it is too optimistic. I think
the sell-off was uh unwarranted and I
think it's going to likely reverse. I
think futures markets are going to be
converging upward or toward expiry onto
physical prices which are reflect uh
reflecting that scarcity premium and
that scarcity is just going to broaden
this month as that hole uh widens from
Asia and arrives in Europe and and
eventually the United States. So, yeah,
I think uh futures prices are going up.
I think, you know, when they look back
at this, I think a real defining feature
of this is the disbelief that this could
even happen in the market. No one
thought, but Rapidan, that a disruption
in the Hormuz could last more than a day
or two. I challenge you to find anybody
who said, "Yeah, it's going to take
several weeks for them to clear up
Hormuz." Now that we're in that
nightmare scenario, folks want to
believe it's going to end soon. And they
accept pleasing words and verbal
intervention about that. So there's been
this willingness of the market, you see
it in equities, you see it in bonds, you
see it even in the crude futures. Tell
me it's going to end soon. Eventually
that's going to wear off and we're going
to have to deal with the reality of the
biggest disruption in oil market
history. Um Bob, I mean, I think you're
spot-on. I think it says something about
human nature, just our inability to
hedge or imagine chaos and our desire
for things to return to normal. So if
oil prices do need to head higher,
Goldman Sachs is talking about $100 a
barrel that being their baseline if this
lasts months. So where where do you land
on where this energy market might settle
considering continued action in the
Middle East and issues with the flow of
energy?
So we have three scenarios for how the
oil rally will end. The base case is a
ceasefire, just not now. We are thinking
maybe later this month, probably in the
120, 130, 140 area where now futures
have converged up. So we probably have
to go a little bit higher in physical.
At that point, Iran's control over
Hormuz will be degraded somewhat and
they'll decide time to make a deal.
Now, if we have to take longer to have
the US military forcibly open the strait
and since we started late on that, later
than I expected, that could mean oil
prices 150, 160. That'll take a little
longer, especially if we don't have
international help. Finally, final
scenario, this is our lowest
probability, but you can't rule it out,
is we have to do it the hard way. The
rally ends because the oil price
inflicts a recession and and destroys
GDP growth. And boy, that's an effective
way to cap an oil price is the way we
normally see oil price rallies end since
World War II, there's a recession at the
scene of the crime. And so that could
be, you you well well well north of 150,
we find the new level that basically
causes economic growth to slow markedly.
Some big fat tails in this. And one of
the other risk Bob, I had a conversation
with Ed Morse now at Hartree, was at
City and in various other places before,
who in the beginning of this conflict
said that one of the bigger risk for
energy markets was the addition of
Iranian proxies into the fight. And we
have gotten that with Hezbollah. The
risk being of what we saw yesterday,
attack on a Saudi key East-West
pipeline. Bob, beyond just what's
happening through the Strait of Hormuz,
how much are you monitoring the other
energy infrastructure and is it
something that we're complacent on, the
risks to those types of assets?
No, it's something we're very focused
on. And Ed Morse is a great man.
We are particularly focused on the one
ray of hope, the one outlet here, is
that heroic Saudi decision decades ago
to twin to to make that East to build
the East-West pipeline and then to
expand its capacity in short order from
five to seven million barrels a day. And
flow it through to Yanbu. And you see
the boats there picking up. It's the one
really offset we have to the loss of
this 20 million barrels a day. It's
terrific. It's not sufficient to offset
the whole loss. It's terrific. Now you
have the Houthis, and we've been saying
this as well, are getting in the fight.
And if they and the Saudis decide to hit
those pumping stations along the
East-West pipeline, which has already
occurred, if they're able to hit the
Yanbu terminals, that one last sort of
ray of hope, you know, goes away. And so
we're very focused on if the if we
escalate to the next level, and we would
have gone there Tuesday night if we did
a big attack, you will see the the
proxies come in and we're most focused
on the Houthis and the risk to that one
Saudi redirect through East-West to
Yanbu, most important.
>> It's the pipeline the world knew it
didn't need. Bob, thank you so much for
your time this morning. Bob McNally of
Rapidan Energy. Coming up on the
program, another hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance as we count you down to
inflation data at 8:30. Abby Yoder of JP
Morgan Private Bank, Erica Najarian of
UBS, Matt Lusetti of Deutsche Bank, and
Jessica Naviskas of Marquette. You're
watching Bloomberg Surveillance. Good
morning.
This bull market has been battle tested.
The fundamentals have still remained
very healthy.
>> But Wall Street's figured it out. It's a
buying opportunity. The market is highly
skeptical that the ceasefire is real.
>> It feels like we're on the same kind of
off-ramp here. That's pretty good for
the market. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Ferro, Lisa
Abramowicz, and Anne Marie Hoerdern.
We're 30 minutes away from inflation
data live from New York City this
morning. Good morning. I'm Anne Marie
Hoerdern. This is a third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance with Danny
Burger. Lisa and John are off today. We,
as I said, 30 minutes away from the CPI
data. It's the first print, Danny, we're
going to have that has the full impact
of rising energy prices, rising oil
prices due to what's going on in this
conflict in Iran.
>> The expectation is for a 0.9% increase,
and that would be the highest since
2022. Maybe the bad news for this
economy is that you already had some
concerning dynamics coming before that.
We saw that in the February PCE. It was
maybe a little bit stickier than we
wanted. Um we heard from David Rosenberg
writing in saying that the economy was
already losing steam. To to be fair, he
is a tiny bit of a permabear. But just
considering that even before the
conflict broke out, there were these
vibes in the economy that were not
positive. This adds to it. So you see a
market that is flat today. It's rallied
a lot. I just wondered, does stickier
inflation change the posture of those
willing to take risk?
>> And there's two big risks now going into
the weekend. It doesn't even feel like a
weekend because there's not just the
inflation data at 8:30, but then on top
of that, everyone wants to see what is
going to be the outcome of these talks
in Islamabad. And individuals I'm
talking to say the fact that they're
just meeting, like that's the outcome.
That's the success of these talks.
>> Although Bob McNally from Rapidan was
just on with us saying that he was
saying to clients set your expectations
low.
>> So low. Yes, so low. And that we could
have continued high oil prices. His
expectation we could see up to 150 or
you go so far that there's significant
demand destruction and there's a
recession. We're not really talking
about those odds right now.
>> Dr. Sultan who runs Adnoc, which of
course is the UAE's biggest energy
company, said that the last vessels
before this war that left the Strait of
Hormuz, it's now over. They've landed at
their destination and there's no new
inflow. And that is why this moment is
so acute. And that's why the Treasury
Department right now and the White House
are weighing whether or not to extend
sanction waivers for Russian sanctioned
oil on some of these countries in Asia
like India, which are in town lobbying
hard to try to make sure those flows
continue. Still just a band-aid on on a
very very deep wound of a waterway. And
again, I go back to what Bob said. I
think he put it really well that no one
expected, maybe except for him, that
Iran would be able to do this. That
they'd be able to close the Strait of
Hormuz. And here we are in the
worst-case scenario.
And oil futures are still pricing that
we fall below 80 by this time next year.
A lot of job owning from this White
House, but at some point maybe the
physical market, to Bob's point, will
catch up. Where are we in terms of
markets this morning as we head into
that inflation data? S&P 500 futures are
flat. We are off of a 7-day rally. Um of
course, investors are pretty much just
baking in that this ceasefire for now
hold. And all eyes, of course, as me and
Danny have been talking about will be on
crude. New York crude this morning,
$97.88.
This White House certainly wants to keep
it below the $100 mark. Coming up this
morning, Abby Yoder of J.P. Morgan with
stocks looking to build on their longest
winning streak since October. Erica
Anjariana of UBS previewing next week's
bank earnings. And that Lisette of
Deutsche Bank breaking down the latest
inflation data. We begin this hour with
stocks flat and crude rising as traders
await direction on the fragile ceasefire
between the United States and Iran.
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins us now
for Washington. Tyler, set the scene for
us in Islamabad this weekend.
Yeah, hey Emarie. Good morning. Well, we
are expecting Vice President J.D. Vance
to depart for Pakistan later this
morning as the White House maintains
that these diplomatic efforts are on
track. Yet, we did hear fresh threats
from President Trump when it comes to
the Strait of Hormuz overnight. In a
pair of posts on Truth Social yesterday,
the President said that Iran better not
be charging tolls on ships that are
transiting through the waterway. And
that Iran is doing a quote very poor job
when it comes to reopening it. And this
is important because of course reopening
the strait is pivotal to the two-week
agreement. But it is it is underscoring
the potential difficulties ahead for a
longer-term considering that we know one
of Iran's top demands is that they want
sovereignty over the strait. Now, that
is just one in what appears to be a long
list of big differences between the two
sides when it comes to negotiations.
Even as US officials assert Iran is
striking a different tone privately.
It's the strait, but also the future of
Iran's nuclear capabilities that appear
to be the biggest disagreements at the
moment. Now, while the US and Iran will
sit down in Pakistan, it is also
important for us to note that there are
going to be these parallel talks between
Israel and Lebanon here in Washington
next week after it appears that Israel's
operation against the Iranian-backed
militant group Hezbollah posed a
potential roadblocks for the US getting
these talks this weekend off the ground.
Emarie, as you know, the White House
maintains that Israel's operation in
Lebanon is separate. It was never
supposed to be part of the ceasefire
talks, but after a reported call by
President Trump to Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, it appears
that these direct talks has help have
helped to pave the way for this
weekend's conversation. Thank Tyler
Kendall in Washington. Thank you so much
for your time this morning. Here's the
view from Wall Street. Abby Joseph JP
Morgan Private Bank writing, "We are
still constructive on the market driven
by fundamentals. We maintain our
year-end S&P 500 bull base
bull base and bear targets leaving us at
7,500 at the midpoint." Abby joins us
now. Abby, good morning. Thanks for
joining us. Can we get there if the
ceasefire doesn't hold and it's not
credible?
I mean, that's so when when all this
started happening, we had to really
think about it. Like it's impossible to
kind of figure out like pinpoint where
it's going to go, but we wanted to do
some scenario analysis around what would
happen if oil prices as the main
variable stayed at certain levels for an
extended period of time, right? Because
that's important. How long they're at a
certain level is going to dictate like
what this market does and what it means
for sentiment. Um so no, if you have oil
above $100 for the next 3 to 6 months,
that's not going to get you to that, you
know, our current base case, but that's
not our base case. Our base case is that
oil reverts back down to an $80 per
barrel and it stays there for, you know,
there for 3 to 6 months, right? And
that's actually above that $80 is above
what we had for oil previously. We, you
know, our outlook was 60 to 70 dollars.
So we are baking in that geopolitical
premium. Is this what clients are mostly
sending you questions about right now?
Is this top of mind? Of course it's top
of mind, but like the it's, you know,
you you go back to January and the
biggest concerns were around software
and what was happening from, you know,
an AI perspective and how, you know, you
have these private AI labs that are kind
of overtaking the software space. And
then there's also private credit that I
still think is like going on underneath
the surface, especially when you look at
some of the financials performance. So,
I think even if we move past these
geopolitical fears that are obviously
front and center at the moment, those
are still out there. And we've seen that
kind of in price action in terms of the
the reaction post like ceasefire talks.
>> Software has been so interesting to me
cuz it hasn't necessarily been logical.
When this war first started, energy
rallied and software rallied. Now that
we have a ceasefire, energy has fallen
and software stocks have fallen 5%. This
also from Bespoke, the 30 worst
performing Russell 1000 names since the
ceasefire began. Three are energy
stocks, 22 are software stocks. I mean,
what do you make of that?
>> I mean,
that's those are really good points in
terms of it was interesting to see the
bounce when the war started, but I think
that was a lot of that was positioning
related, right? Like you had gotten to
valuations on broad software that we
hadn't seen in 10 to 15 years, right?
So, there was an element of that. There
was just a lot of, you know, short
positioning in that in that sense. But
now, to your point, now that we have
these ceasefire talks, you're seeing the
broad market rally and they are not
participating. And I think again, that
goes back to, okay, when we go, when
let's say we move past geopolitical
risk, what was at the forefront of
everyone's concerns prior to that? It
was really around software and what was
happening from an AI perspective. Now,
there are idiosyncrasy in like there
are, you know, idiosyncratic moves in
that you've seen cybersecurity names do
really well, right? Like I think those
stand out as probably the winners in
terms of the application layer, but the
other, you know, software as a service
general like is still under pressure
from a tech Yeah, unless whatever
Anthropic, you know, is putting out eats
every single cybersecurity thing, which
I guess is a threat now as is all of
human civilization. Um the other thing I
found interesting, again, I was just
looking kind of at the broadly the
market moves year to date, and small
caps have actually outperformed a lot, 8
and 1/2 percentage points, which feels
pretty significant just given the
chronic underperformance. Is there
something there that in this angst,
maybe you get some of the smaller cap
names that can play along? Well, I think
what you've seen in small cap falls into
this bucket is what what was working
prior to the war. It was cyclicality,
right? And so I think that's what you're
seeing. You're seeing this rotation back
into, okay, growth has actually held in
pretty well. Earnings have held in
pretty well throughout this, you know,
6-week period. And so let's rotate back
into what was working, that halo theme,
you know, the cyclicality in small caps
really do embed that and have been you
know, a market underperformer for a very
long period of time. So I think there's
just room for positioning to increase
there as well.
>> What what has changed since the start of
the year cuz there's been so many
different narratives in terms of what
you're recommending to sectors for
clients? Yeah, I mean, nothing has
actually changed. I think what will be
very pivotal. So we recommend five
sectors, financials, utilities, tech,
industrials and healthcare. And I think,
you know, right now, if you look at the
worst-performing sector, it it's
financials, right? And I think this
earning season, which starts next
next week and you're going to hear from
Erica after this, like
really what it has anything changed? How
does private credit really affect these
banks? Like I think that's something
that we're really looking at to really
understand what we want to do in terms
of a financials outlook. And then also,
you know, obviously M&A and IPOs have
kind of taken a back step because of the
geopolitical headlines. Are is that
still happening? Is that backlog still
there? You know, what gets that to start
really working will be something that
we're looking at.
>> look at earning revisions, it's for
everything that's being hit right now
with these headlines. Um are you
surprised by any of them? No, I mean, to
your point, so what where have we seen
Well, first like let's take a step back.
Typically, when you start the year, you
see negative revisions for the S&P 500
to the tune of
like 3% downward revisions. We've seen
actually a positive revision of 2.5%.
That's really interesting, right? And
what's driving that to your point is
technology primarily. We've seen 10 and
1/2% revisions for technology
year-to-date. A lot of that concentrated
in the semiconductors. And then you've
seen it from energy and materials just
given what's going on with commodity
prices. So, it's a very interesting
dynamic. It sets up, you know,
interestingly for 1Q again, which
starts, you know, next week. And the
expectations are for 13% year-over-year
growth, which would mark the sixth
consecutive quarter of double-digit
growth for this index. I think that
there's a lot of logic behind there
between tech still doing well. Now you
need to upgrade energy too. But what
about for consumer-facing names? Or
frankly, any company that has plastics,
needs to use fertilizer, is exposed to
energy. Have those been factored into
earnings outlooks yet? Or does that need
a bit of a wake-up call as we work our
way through earning season? I don't
think it's been factored in. I mean, I
think it was interesting to hear from
the airlines this week and that they
really aren't changing their outlook.
And in fact, they're actually increasing
it by kind of tweaking things at the
margin in terms of pricing. And so, it's
really going to be dependent like I
don't think that you can paint consumer
as a whole in terms of who because
there's going to be differences in who
has pricing power, right? Who can offset
those input prices. But I do think it's
going to be not only do you have the the
commodity price impact that is very
different than last year, but you also
have the currency impact that will be
different from a revenue perspective as
well. So, I think those two things will
be very important in thinking about,
okay, we've seen these positive
revisions to earnings. The street is now
expecting 16% growth for 2026 for
earnings. How is that affected by these
two major variables? I think will be
very important.
>> Abby, thank you so much for your time
this morning for stopping by. Abby Yoder
of J.P. Morgan Private Bank. Let's get
you an update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here's your Bloomberg Brief.
The White House warning employees
against insider trading, sending an
internal email following a series of
well-timed bets around President Trump's
military decisions. In one instance,
traders placed massive bets on falling
oil prices minutes before the president
announced a pause in attacks on Iranian
infrastructure. The Senate Banking
Committee is no longer planning to hold
a confirmation hearing for Kevin Warsh
next week. The hearing to confirm Warsh
as the next Federal Reserve chair was
scheduled for Thursday. Punchbowl's
reporting Warsh has not submitted all of
the necessary paperwork just yet. And in
sports, Rory McIlroy is picking up where
he left off at the Masters. After a
sluggish start, the defending champion
notched five birdies in eight holes.
He's tied for the lead at five under
with American Sam Burns. The second
round teeing off in just the last hour.
I don't know enough about the Masters to
say anything, but I do know I have a
feeling that this is why Jonathan had
this week off. Yeah, and that's what I'm
also wondering. Do you think he's
watching the show or the Masters? It's
>> Masters. I didn't know they kicked off
an hour ago. They start early.
>> everyone has like Masters up next to
Bloomberg Surveillance. I've seen a I've
seen a few photos of that on financial
Twitter. So, yeah.
>> That's all you need on this Friday
morning.
>> Lots of screens. Up next, the morning
calls, plus Erica Nygren of UBS looking
ahead to next week's bank earnings.
You're joining Bloomberg Surveillance.
When CPI comes out today, everything
will be swamped by the initial headline
inflation shock from energy. The
question though is 6 months from now, is
that turning out to be a one and done or
something more serious? I think it's
more likely that inflation over the sort
of medium to long haul is a bit more
volatile
uh rather than averaging a lot higher.
That was Krishna Guha of Evercore ISI as
we count you down to the inflation data
this morning. Markets are relatively
flat. Of course, we have had seven days
of gains, and all our eyes will be on
oil going into the weekend. 97.82 right
now on NYMEX crude as we await these
high-level discussions between Tehran
and Washington. Time now for the morning
calls. First up, UBS downgrading
ServiceNow to neutral and slashing its
price target. The firm saying it's no
longer betting
better positioned for the AI era
compared to other software names. Next
up, Piper Sandler downgrading Nike
citing innovation concerns and worries
that athleisure wear's quote becoming
too saturated across the industry. I
feel like that's an evergreen statement.
And finally, Mizuho upgrading Shake
Shack to outperform saying the company
has the drivers in place to exceed
expectations throughout 2026. Let's turn
to banks now. Goldman Sachs kicking off
earnings on Monday. Joining us now is
Herman Chan of Bloomberg Intelligence.
Herman, thanks so much for joining us.
So, set the scene. What do we need to
know for Goldman next week? Yes, so
we're expecting strong trading results
across the board for Goldman and the the
banks that are kicking off earnings next
week. So, really good guidance over the
past month or so from the likes of JP
Morgan, Citi, and Bank of America on
trading and investment banking on a
year-over-year basis for the quarter.
And lending's been pretty strong across
the group as well with the pick up in
commercial lending in particular. So,
actually, despite all the the macro
issues on geopolitical front and issues
on potential stagflation, we're actually
expecting pretty strong earning results
across the group. What are you going to
be most focused on? Is it just going to
be the earnings call? How all these CEOs
react to the whipsaw of markets and the
headlines that are coming out because of
the conflict in the Middle East?
>> Yeah, I think we're we're really focused
more on the guidance for the rest of the
year. Is there how's the investment
banking pipeline look? Has there been
anything that maybe was taken out of
pipeline? Are we seeing a bit more
choppier markets, particularly in IPOs
and M&A? And also, can can the lending
that that's been really strong to start
the year, can that be sustained given
all these uncertainties that are
happening in the market today? Herman
Chan of Bloomberg Intelligence, thank
you so much for setting the scene for
us. Joining us now, Erica Najarian of
UBS. And she writes, "Our estimates for
'26 and '27 are largely unchanged.
Recent year-to-date performance could
unearth some opportunities, especially
given strong momentum in direct lending,
capital markets, and deregulation."
Erica joins us now. You've been very
consistent when it comes to the banks.
What are you looking forward to next
week? So, I'm looking forward for some
numbers, actually. We have been just um
dealing with a barrage of headlines.
Geopolitical, is AI going to wipe all of
us out? Nobody's going to be able to,
you know, pay their credit card, you
know, or buy a fancy sweater. And so,
you know, I'm excited for the facts. And
actually, the regulatory data is very
promising. Direct lending to companies
is up like 2.6 standard deviations above
the seasonal average. The consumer, for
now, crossing fingers and toes
underneath this desk, um still spending.
And of course, capital markets is still
buoying. And so, you know, the market is
going to see this as largely a little
bit backward-looking.
And so, it's really important for us to
hear from the management teams,
especially the G-SIBs, in terms of what
they're seeing looking forward and how
resilient these trends are. The capital
market strength has been pretty
incredible. I remember having a
conversation with Paul Taubman at the
outbreak of the war, who basically said
it's time to put the pom-poms away, that
it might not be as robust. Instead, what
we got was the best first quarter on
record for M&A. I spoke to the heads of
M&A at both Morgan Stanley and Goldman
Sachs, who said it's looks incredible,
the pipeline looks good. Is there any
reason to expect that that will change
in banks' outlook, that we won't
continue to have strength, cuz we have
despite AI fears and war? So, I think we
need to think about M&A and IPOs maybe a
little bit separately, right? So, it
feels like in this current
administration, there's like a very
specific window for these strategic
partnerships, right? Because you have a
you know,
you can you used to not be able to get
like your handbag deal approved, right?
Oh, yeah. It's like a monopoly on, you
know, mid handbags. Coach and Michael
Kors, right?
>> Yes, yes.
And so it feels like that window matters
more than the volatility. Now, the real
question is is that, you know, clearly
there are blockbuster IPOs that are
coming down the pipe, but what about the
smaller ones? And now the sponsors are
saying, "Huh, you know, valuation has
come in." And so what's more important,
timing or waiting out the valuation once
again? I think that's actually, you
know,
could quite be more interesting to ask
about, but it does feel like M&A that
boom will continue despite all these
headlines. The The other headline that's
been ever present is just anything
related to private credit has attracted
a lot of eyeballs. Will there be any
spillover
from the stress that we're seeing?
Again, whether it be stress just on the
sentiment level or on the actual
underlying asset itself. So, that's a
great question and I'm really excited
for David Solomon and Jamie Dimon to
kick this off because, you know, not to
be
I'm not going to use this opportunity to
nerd out on the structure, but
essentially
>> you can. It's Bloomberg TV. If you're
going to do it somewhere, this is the
place. So,
let me break it down to you like this.
For the bank to lose the first dollar on
the on these credits, you would
essentially have to lose, let's say, 40%
equity first, right? And so the way they
protected themselves in terms of
essentially being very senior to the
special purpose entity that holds the
collateral or the pool of loans. And the
way they've structured these credits,
they essentially are, you know, you you
have to burn through that equity first.
And when you're hearing in the headlines
that, you know, banks are marking these
loans, marking the value of the special
purpose entity, they're actually
beholding the fund to put in a more
equity, right? And so, you know, um I'm
an equity gal, not a bond gal, but like,
you know, over collateralization is a
technical thing, and that's the position
that the banks are in. Now, you know,
Jamie sets the tone, right? And in the
third quarter, you know, he did talk
about pests, Yes. right? Um and, you
know, his chairman's letter sort of set
the tone in terms of what he thinks you
know, the defaults could be if we fall
into a recession, but the question for
him is, okay, well, that's well all well
and good, but what is the actual
blowback to the banks? I think that's
the important question, because then we
could put to bed, you know, the
underlying fear that there's a systemic
issue here. Mhm. And by the way, by the
way, um we're coming upon this sort of
um inflection point, these issues, where
the banks are coming in with so much
capital, so much liquidity, plus the
regulators are really defining excess
capital and liquidity. And the very
definition of systemic risk is if like
the banks pull away, all that capacity
away, and then you have a credit crunch.
And I'm not sure that's the case right
now.
>> One of the ways I've heard it described
that it could theoretically be systemic
is just that banks themselves lend to
private credit players. And we've seen
JP Morgan, for example, say, "We're
going to revalue what we think you're
worth because of your software loans."
Do you see a scenario where, one,
there's spillover effects, or two, just
simply that they decide to pull back
from this area of lending because of
those concerns? Look, I think that there
has certainly been a
um
you know, a boom in these types of
credits, but if you think about the
brand name sponsors, right? They're
going to be around forever, and they're
the your pipeline for a lot of other
businesses other than, you know, any
non-depository financial institution
lending. And so, you're not going to
say, "Hey, I'm going to pull back from,
you know, Ares and KKR," right? Um and
so, you know, I think there's always
going to be, you know, a a reevaluation
of, you know, credit underwriting
whenever something like this comes up,
but I'm not sure that there's going to
be that big of a pullback.
>> could just finish on the banks for next
week, what's your top pick?
Ooh, actually, I'm going to be a little
bit spicy. So, we upgraded Morgan
Stanley. Um in an uncertain world, buy
quality. Well, look, I mean, Morgan
>> Your words. If everything is on sale,
buy the Hermes Kelly, right?
Um
it's just funny to me that, you know, in
this capital markets Renaissance,
um Morgan Stanley's been left out of the
conversation. Arguably, one of the best
investment banks in the world. Um and
also, I mean, it's just a juggernaut in
the wealth management business, and I
think it's gotten hit a little bit on
these AI concerns, but Morgan Stanley
has proven in its history that it's not
afraid to disrupt itself. I mean, think
about them buying E-Trade. So, I think
they're going to be, you know, go in
there and have a standout quarter and
flex a little bit and remind everybody
that, you know, they're best in class.
>> Ted pick, flexing next week, maybe,
according to Erica. Thank you so much
for joining us. Erica Allegretta of UBS.
Coming up in the program, the latest
round of CPI data is set to cross. Matt
Luzzetti of Deutsche Bank will be here
with us breaking it all down. You don't
want to miss that data coming up in just
5 minutes time. You're watching
Bloomberg Surveillance.
Good morning. Welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance. We are just moments away
from CPI data in the United States. Of
course, it's going to be incredibly
important inflation print because it's
going to encompass the impact of the war
in Iran right now and the rising energy
prices. Ahead of that data, markets are
just relatively flat. We are having
seven We did just had 7 days of gains
when it comes to S&P 500. NYMEX crude
this morning is down 3/10 of a percent.
And with your inflation data, here is
Michael McKee. Hey, Mike.
Good morning. Well, we're seeing the war
come home as CPI on a headline basis
comes in up 9/10 for the month as
forecast. And that pushes the
year-over-year to 3.3%. Remember, it was
2.4% in February. So, a big jump. The
core comes in up 2/10 on the month. It
takes a while for stuff uh to get into
the core. So, that's not a surprise,
although it's a little lower than
anticipated. Uh the CPI core for the
year, 2.6%.
Uh the index for energy, they say, rose
10.9%.
Take a guess what gasoline went up.
21.2%
according to the Bureau of Labor
Statistics. That accounts for 3/4 of the
entire increase here. Index for food
unchanged over the month. Uh food away
from home rising just 2/10 of a percent.
Uh so, it is not uh a bad overall
report. It is looks like it's uh driven
generally by energy. But, it certainly
doesn't help the Fed's case at all. No,
it certainly does not. When you look at
these energy March CPI energy prices
rise 10.9%
month-over-month. It's the most since
2005. And Danny, what we're seeing right
now in the equity markets is a massive
spike.
>> S&P 500 futures as well as Nasdaq
futures. Yeah, we're seeing relief. We
went from little change up to 2/10 of
1%. You also see bond yields come in,
too. They were all pushing higher. Now,
it's little change across the curve. The
front end of the curve comes in 1 and
1/2 basis points. AnneMarie, it's
relief. But, not massive relief cuz we
still have the big risk event this
weekend. Yes, you have this in hand, but
can you rush into risk right now? Even
if CPI isn't as threatening, can you
rush into risk with still negotiations
to come over the week?
>> Right. This is a Friday, but really this
is an extension of the week we're going
to have. Tomorrow's all important
meeting is going to be the talks in
Islamabad. And just moments ago, we had
Vice President J.D. Vance climb up to
his plane, and he is going to be heading
over to Islamabad. So, these talks will
be taking place this week, but a lot of
people say really just the base case is
that they met. That might just be the
success, which is why it's going to be
interesting what it means for oil
prices.
>> Yeah, and what what do we see if these
just get extended and we don't get a
resolution? You were talking about the
you and Mike were talking about the huge
addition of gasoline into prices.
Gasoline accounted for almost 3/4 of the
US CPI rise. Maybe that's something you
can look through now, but how does that
feed through to consumer behavior? Does
that in turn impact what we're willing
to spend? What's the bigger threat? Is
it inflation? Is it growth? Yeah, so
gasoline, Mike, accounted for almost 3/4
of US CPI as Danny and you also
mentioned. What else are you seeing in
this report?
Well, I think one of the biggest things
that everybody's been watching for is
what happens with shelter prices because
we had been seeing a decline in house
prices, but it looks like it they've
started to go back up again. Owners'
equivalent rent up 3/10, and rent
overall up 3/10. As shelter costs rise
the same, so after a string of months
where they were only rising 2/10 of a
percent, they seem to be going up again,
and that's not going to be good news for
those looking for a long-term decline in
core rates. So, that is something to
keep in mind as we go forward. Mike, we
we already had data in hand from PCE of
of the prior month this week, which
didn't exactly seem like a great
starting point. What do you make of the
two months together, not just this one
in isolation? What do the trends look
like?
Well, it's a little bit mountain-shaped.
We went up in January, down in February,
up in in the month of March. And that's
probably going to be the case, although
we are likely to see another continued
effect of the war in terms of energy in
the April numbers. And then the question
is, does it start to show up in things
like food prices because fertilizer has
been unavailable and prices have gone
way up? Does it start to show up in
other areas where
it just takes a while to get in there?
And that's kind of the issue for overall
for what we're going to be seeing going
forward is what kind of effects will the
war have? And that is the job for the
Fed to try to separate that out and
figure out what the underlying inflation
rate is. Couple of other notes to to
pass on here is we see that new car
prices were up only a tenth and used car
prices went down by four tenths. That's
a surprise. Wholesale prices have been
going up, so we had expected that to
rise. Apparel prices look like they were
up by a percentage point. So there's a
tariff impact. Remember tariffs? Yeah,
we do. We're still waiting to hear
what's going on in terms of those
refunds and potentially the new levels
for other countries, Mike, after the
Supreme Court, of course, struck down
IEEPA. Michael McKee, stay close. Thank
you so much for your insight. Matt
Lusetti is joining us around the table
now of Deutsche Bank. Matt, just what's
your reaction for the CPI? Yeah, I think
as as Mike highlighted, you want to kind
of disentangle some of the stickier
items
from the volatile items. And I think for
this print, it is important that rent to
know we are were stronger. That that
does tell you you know, they're a little
bit higher than we we expected. Maybe on
a forward-looking basis, those things
tend to be a little bit more persistent.
Used car prices were actually materially
weaker than I think we were
anticipating.
You had decline that Mike had noted. I
think over the next several months there
should be picking up given what we see
from from wholesale prices. You did see
air fares rose pretty strongly. Maybe
that's reflecting a little bit of the
the rise in jet fuel prices as we look
ahead. But overall, very strong headline
print, core print weaker than expected,
but we'll have to see over the next
several months. Probably get a pickup.
>> But, this isn't the worst case scenario,
is it? No, I think yeah, for for the
Fed, you can look through a particular
month, particularly driven by by gas
prices. I think more important for the
Fed would be yesterday's print, which
was core PCE. That is running at 3%
year-over-year. Um it's a percentage
point above their own target. Now, they
are they think that, you know, 50 to 75
basis points of that is from tariffs.
But, the starting point is just not good
when you're overlaying another energy
price shock on top of that.
So, you have those two in hand, the
market, and Marie was just pointing this
out to me that you do have a market
starting to price in more bets of a cut.
We're something around 20% odds we get
one by the end of this year.
Given what you were just saying, is this
a setup where you can get cuts? So, our
baseline is that we will get a cut in
the back half of the year.
Um but, kind of confidence in that has
has waned, I think. And the story and
narrative to get there, I think, has
changed. So,
uh coming into the year, we thought that
we would see some meaningful
disinflation over the back half of the
year, core PCE falling below 2.5% and
with that the Fed being able to cut
rates, you know, potentially as you get
a more dovish reaction function under a
Kevin Warsh-led Fed. We're we're not
there yet, uh obviously. Uh but, I think
that story has changed. Inflation is now
too high. I think the probability that
we get enough disinflation this year
where the Fed cuts on an inflation story
alone is less likely, and you likely
need to see some weakness in the labor
market to get the Fed to cut later this
year. Uh as we saw the last Friday's
jobs report, we don't see that weakness.
You have a labor market that looks very
resilient. The unemployment rate is
actually declining a little bit. Payroll
gains are picking up. Um and so, I I do
think the market, yes, we're pricing a
little bit of a of a cut, but the
probability is pretty low at this point.
And this is where, and Lisa's talked
about this a lot, where scenario
analysis becomes kind of the only thing
you can do considering how big the left
tail is. We're talking to Bob McNally
rapid in earlier, who's saying one of
his scenarios, not his base case, but
one scenario is where you get a a
hit to growth because of higher energy
prices and you need to start talking
about recession. For you, what is the
level where that can come into the
picture? Yeah, I think the way that we
think about oil prices is there is this
strong historical uh parallel between
oil price shocks and recessions. I think
nine out of the 11 recessions that we
had after World War II were uh coincided
with a meaningful oil price shock. But,
the structure of the economy has changed
materially over the past 10 years. You
know, we're now an net energy exporter,
uh record production that that we're
seeing. Households still take a hit, uh
but households are buffered given the
tax cuts that we see. So, the price
level that we are uh kind of worried
about would be about $150 per barrel for
oil. That would eliminate the the
benefits that households have from from
the Trump tax cuts. Uh we're not there
and obviously we moved away from from
those levels over the past week. I just
want to bring in Mike McKee for another
moment. I know he's been digging into
the data. Mike, what else are you
seeing?
Well, we've got some interesting
surprises and some not so surprising
news. Uh you look at airline fares, they
were up 2.7%. Of course, the airlines
raising prices to keep up with the fuel
uh problem that they have, but it's also
the season where they start to raise
prices going forward for summer
vacations. But, some areas did not rise
and that is a bit of a surprise. Medical
care services were pretty much flat, uh
down 2/10 on the month after a series of
big increases. Uh we also see motor
vehicle insurance flat on the month.
That had been going down. So, uh some
offsetting moves in things that actually
will show up in the PCE when we get to
to that later in the month. But, uh
overall uh kind of as Matt said, uh
expected in terms of inflation and we
get the usual volatility in various
individual categories. The question is
how strong is underlying inflation going
forward? That's the Fed's job to figure
out.
>> Right. So, there are some really
negative pockets, but Mike is pointing
even Matt to some decent improvement
when it comes to inflation in some
scenarios. I guess the Fed could breathe
somewhat of a sigh of relief cuz they
knew the gasoline shock was going to be
there. Yeah, you you knew the gasoline
shock was going to be there. You you got
some weakness in medical care
commodities, used car prices. I think
the the one one thing is as you look
ahead, the fact that rent and owner
occupied are stronger is important.
Those are very persistent components.
They're much larger share of CPI than
they are of PCE, but nonetheless is if
those pick up, you you build in a little
bit more inflation as you look ahead.
And then again, some of the weakness in
used car prices where we have pretty
high confidence that over the next
several months, those are going to
bounce back given what we see from
wholesale prices. The key question
remains, you know, how much pass-through
do you have from this oil energy price
shock to core uh components. The Fed's
modeling on that uh reaches different
conclusions. The Fed staff's model
suggests that you have very little
pass-through to core inflation. They had
some other modeling that they did uh
after the 2022 oil price shock, which
suggests that you could have more
persistent pass-through. So, I think
that's the key question for the Fed. I I
still will just go back and and you're
great on this, Matt. Just the setup.
This that the setup wasn't great for
this. That in PCE, we saw this rise come
before and and the sticky inflation. If
we couldn't get inflation down to target
for the past 60 months even before the
outbreak of war and another energy
shock, how do we even get there at this
point? Yeah, and I think that's the the
real issue for the Fed, right? Because
even before this shock, the core PC
inflation was still a percentage point
above their target. We are now, you
know, 5, 6 years into the initial uh
inflation shock that we saw after COVID.
Uh yes, there are reasons why this time
inflation is higher than it should be,
and tariffs is the culprit at this
point. Uh but I think what you've seen
is just more Fed officials growing kind
of frustrated with the progress or lack
of progress that they've seen on the
inflation front. So, even if you were to
exclude another energy price shock and
the fact that that could lift inflation
on a forward-looking basis, you still
are left with uh very little inflation
progress over the past 18 months. Uh and
a labor market that looks very close to
the Fed's targets. In that environment,
I think the Fed it would be leaning
towards keeping rates steady. And even
in a normal environment could be
thinking about that they are not
restrictive enough to bring inflation
down. And the potential for rate hikes.
Now, we we don't think that that's a
baseline, but I think, you know, it's a
normal environment where growth is
solid, the labor market is resilient and
close to target, and inflation is a
percentage point above target. We just
had the Vice President depart for these
talks in Islamabad. What are you looking
forward to this weekend? Yeah, I I think
the market has taken uh this view that
both sides have just shown their hand
and wanting to de-escalate, right? Now,
the path between here and a full
reopening of the Strait of Hormuz seems
to be very unclear, and we've had very
little progress on that front so far.
But, I think as long as the market sees
continued progress or movements in that
direction,
uh then we will see oil prices that I
think remain somewhat more subdued, the
markets can remain more buoyant, and the
markets be a little bit less worried
about about about Fed rate hikes. Um you
know, in speaking with clients,
uh I think that they've really
meaningfully taken down their their view
of the risk scenarios around this. I
think they think that the peak market
impact of this event i- is behind us. Um
so, there's there could be some
complacency on on on that front. Uh and
so, you do worry a little bit about that
that we just become we have had these
headlines, we believe that de-escalation
is going to be in place, and then we're
a little bit too complacent around
escalation.
>> Right. The market is really holding on
to the idea that this ceasefire can
last. Absolutely. All right, Matt
Luzzetti, thank you so much for joining
us this morning. That was of course Matt
Luzzetti of Deutsche Bank. Want to get
you a recap and an update on stories
we're watching this morning. Here's your
Bloomberg Brief recapping the data we
just got. March CPI inflation rising
9/10 of a percent, the biggest monthly
jump since 2022. Core CPI falling below
expectations, suggesting that underlying
inflation may be stabilizing at a lower
pace. The data leading traders to price
in one Fed rate cut later this year. And
the The astronauts of NASA's Artemis 2
are on their way home. Their mission
broke records taking them further from
Earth than any humans have ever been as
they got closer to the surface of the
moon than any astronaut in more than
half a century. Artemis II is expected
to splash down in the Pacific Ocean at
8:00 p.m. Eastern tonight. And Taylor
Swift and Travis Kelce have set a date
and a location. They're getting married
in New York City. The New York Post
reporting the couple sent out save the
dates for a July 3rd wedding. The power
couple was reportedly set to marry in
Rhode Island but changed their plans to
accommodate more guests. I guess
congratulations are in order. I don't
really care too much. I am wondering
though where in New York is going to be
big enough that they couldn't do this in
Rhode Island.
>> my thought and this is just like kind of
my selfishness of being like I don't
care about them but it's also going to
be happening at the same time as the
World Cup. I'm kind of scared for us in
New York City.
>> 250. Yeah, you're right. It's going to
be a scary like honestly if you don't
have to be in New York City I I would
frankly leave for the month.
>> I'm I'm going to send a email now and
request that week off.
Next, Jev- Jessica Noviskis of Marquette
Associates on the path ahead for
interest rates
plus Bailey Lipschultz with your morning
movers with Coreweave shares rising
after striking a deal with Anthropic.
That stock is up more than 5%. You're
watching Bloomberg Surveillance. Good
morning.
Good morning. Welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance. We're just off the heels
of that CPI data coming in line.
Important data though because of course
this was going to give us a little bit
of data and insight into the energy
spike we saw following the Iran war. And
what we see is that coming in line so
stocks like this and stocks moved higher
on the news. Of course the S&P 500 has
had seven days of gain so this Friday we
do look like we're moving into
potentially another eight consecutive
session with the S&P 500 closing higher.
We are just 1 hour away from the cash
open. Let's bring in your morning movers
with Bailey Lipschultz. Hey, Bailey.
Hey, we're keeping an eye on CoreWeave,
the company striking a partnership with
Anthropic. So, now according to the CEO,
they will have Anthropic, OpenAI,
Google, and Meta. So, when you look at
the reaction from analysts, there was a
little bit of uncertainty since the
company went public on over-reliance to
a single customer. Well, they got the
big four AI models right now in a
partnership. So, building on that,
building on their ability to get access
to Nvidia chips. And as you can see, up
5%. This does come just a day after a
big partnership with Meta was unveiled
with a price tag on that. Want to
position ourselves now with another
company that's outperforming, that's
Marvell Technology. This company was
upgraded to overweight at Barclays,
closed at a 15-month high yesterday,
already up more than 40% year-to-date,
really benefiting from demand for AI
AI data centers. According to the
analyst, really pointing out the fact
that there is no slowing in demand for
building out those chips. And Marvell is
kind of sitting at the crux of that,
really saying that the company
could rapidly grow and see its business
rise by 90% this year and next. Want to
talk about some of the underperformers
or companies that are kind of down in
the dumps, if you will, on the back of
this AI momentum. Looking at software
companies, DocuSign, Veeva, and
Autodesk, all down more than 1%. This
does come after Citi cut half a dozen
companies to neutral from buy. That
analyst saying that most of these are
good companies and well positioned for
the long term, but outside of real
catalyst for the next 12 months, you
shouldn't be looking for a lot of upside
beta. So, maybe better to reposition
elsewhere. So, we are keeping an eye on
the red on the screen. As you can see,
software really the big losers these
days with all the AI hardware and
infrastructure companies on the upside,
guys. Thanks so much, Bailey. All right,
the broader market though rising
following the inflation data as traders
add to bets on one Fed rate cut this
year. Jessica Noviskis of Marquette
Associates joins us now. All right, so
Jessica, it was bang in line. So, does
this just basically mean the Fed can
kind of look through what we've seen in
terms of the energy shock?
That's exactly what we expect from the
Fed. So, the increase in the
month-over-month headline number, March
over February, was entirely attributable
to gasoline prices. Gasoline makes up
about 3% of the CPI index and it was up
21%. So, that's that differential there.
Given the ceasefire, we think that is
sort of cover for the Fed to look
through this energy crisis and keep
rates on hold when they meet later this
month. What about for investors,
Jessica? Does it now mean we can look
through inflation and look through to
earnings?
I think investors are already doing
that. Uh I think this is more of the
same that we've seen in markets. This
persistent optimism, this buy-the-dip
propensity. The The markets and
investors have been conditioned to look
through volatility, to look through that
worst-case scenario, because that's
what's worked in markets. If you've
taken risk off at the wrong time, uh
that's the best way to destroy value.
So, I think investors have been doing
that and they're going to continue doing
that until they are confronted with
something that they cannot do that any
longer. What What's the borderline
between that and complacency? Is it
complacency in markets or is there some
real logic to this idea that markets are
able to look through geopolitical angst
and this specific energy shock?
It certainly depends on how long the war
lasts. If this ceasefire holds and we
see a resolution at the end of this, I
think it's fair to write it off,
depending on how quickly energy markets
reprice. I think the other piece of this
is that earnings have been strong. So,
even if you are a more fundamental
manager, you can point to the fact that
earnings are strong and earnings
expectations are good. So, that's sort
of that backbone of markets. I think if
we see and again, Q1 earnings are sort
of going to get a pass
uh because of the timeline of the
conflict, but I think guidance will be
really telling
and depending on how earnings estimates
trade out for the rest of the year. I
think that could be sort of that
difference between complacency and
really
reacting to fundamentals. This is what
I've heard a lot throughout the week.
Everyone was talking about how they need
to know the duration of this. This
ceasefire is this credible? Is it going
to last longer? When will we actually
see the Strait of Hormuz essentially
open up? So, the second quarter Jessica,
could we actually see revisions to the
downside when it comes to earnings if
these energy prices really start to hit?
I think we certainly could. I think this
is an input for a lot of companies.
We'll see how
they price it in. This is similar to
tariffs where it was
a price increase to companies. We saw
little pass through. We're seeing more
of it now. The consumer has remained
resilient, so maybe there is more
appetite to pass through and protect
margins at this point. So, I think there
are still a lot of moving pieces, but
we've heard that there has been even if
the Strait opens, which it still hasn't,
there has been structural damage to
energy infrastructure in the Middle East
and to the extent that that keeps energy
prices high, companies are going to have
to factor that in. Why is the market so
willing to buy positive headlines and
less so negative ones?
Because it's worked. It's been the right
move. I think a lot of it has to do with
the retail trade that we've seen really
building in markets since COVID. COVID,
we saw the quick bounce back.
Russia-Ukraine was limited. Liberation
Day, the bounce back. Venezuela was a
quick win. I think it's what investors
have come to expect and I think the risk
of missing out on US equity returns for
both US investors and foreign investors
is too high. So, folks have chosen to
remain invested and and I think we will
continue to see more of that. Jessica,
thank you so much for your your this
morning. Jessica Naviskis of Marquette
Associates. We just had news this hour
that Vice President J.D. Vance has
boarded his plane. He's heading to
Islamabad. This was just moments ago.
This, of course, out of tomorrow's
US-Iran peace talks. Vance telling
reporters President Trump gave very
clear guidelines for negotiations.
We're looking forward to the
negotiation. I think it's going to be
positive. We'll, of course, see. As the
President of the United States said, if
the Iranians are willing to negotiate in
good faith, we're certainly willing to
extend the open hand. If they're going
to try to play us, then they're going to
find that the negotiating team is not
that receptive.
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins us now
with the latest. So, Tyler, we do have
uh Vice President Vance heading over for
these meetings. I keep asking this
question. For the United States, what
does success look like at these
meetings?
Well, Annmarie, as you've mentioned on
the program earlier today, it really
appears just the fact that the
negotiations are happening and getting
off the ground is considered to be a
success at least at this moment after we
saw that potential roadblock yesterday
over Israel's front in Lebanon. The
thing is, there are just still such big
differences between the two sides, as
the Vice President here is saying that
President Trump has given them clear
guidelines. President Trump has
previously outlined that the US wants to
see no Iranian nuclear enrichment in a
potential deal, and that the US would be
able to extract already enriched
material. The thing is, we know that
something like that is considered to be
a non-starter from the Iranian side.
Still, US officials maintain that Iran
privately is sending them a different
message. But, Annmarie, as you well
know, another key part of this is the
Strait of Hormuz, and publicly Iran
doesn't appear to be letting up on their
leverage there. President Trump issuing
fresh threats overnight, saying that
Iran better not be charging tolls, and
that the country is doing a very poor
job reopening the strait as data is
showing us that traffic at this point
really hasn't resumed. Yep, essentially
still closed, and that's their entire
leverage. Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall,
thank you so much for joining us. Coming
up on Monday, Peter Cheer of Academy
Securities, Norman Roule of CSIS, and
Henriette Treyz of Veda Partners.
Jonathan and Lisa will be back with me
on Monday. Danny, thank you so much for
joining me, and you're taking us through
it the night 9:00 open.
>> Hopefully people aren't sick of me yet.
>> Yeah, yeah. Big big weekend ahead. I
hope you enjoy your weekend as you, of
course, stay close to your terminals.
This is Bloomberg.